TWENTY TWENTY
THREE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING I'M CANDICE BEYER,
CHAIRPERSON OF THE ZONING BOARD
APPEALS, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS AS A NINE PERSON
VOLUNTEER BOARD NOMINATED BY
THE MAYOR AND APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT, THEN
THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NUMBER NINE THREE
EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT WE
WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW HEARING PARTY TO
EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT OR
OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT ON A TIMELY
BASIS.
ROLL CALL.
I AM HERE TO GRANT DAVE HAVARTI
CHRIS MADIGAN HERE JULIA GOOD
HERE GRACE WHITNEY HERE.
MIKE DANIEL HERE.
TOM AKMAN HERE.
CHRISTINA LISEK HERE.
WE HAVE A QUORUM MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE A COUPLE THINGS
QUICKLY.
THE FIRST ITEM AND WINDEMERE
DRIVE THE APPLICANT HAS
REQUESTED A POSTPONEMENT.
SO IF ANYONE IS HERE TO SPEAK
ON THAT PETITION, WE WILL TAKE
ANY COMMENT TONIGHT BUT WE WILL
BE HEARING ANYTHING FROM THE
APPLICANT OR MAKING ANY
DECISIONS THE ITEM WILL BE RE
NOTICED AND THERE'LL BE ANOTHER
PUBLIC HEARING IF AND WHEN THAT
COMES BACK.
AND THEN WITH REGARD TO THE
ITEM AT TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
TRAVILLA DRIVE I WILL NEED TO
RECUSE MYSELF SO TIME WILL BE
TAKING OVER FOR THAT ITEM SO
THAT SAID IF THERE ARE NOT ANY
OTHER COMMENTS OR ITEMS TO NOTE
ON THE AGENDA DO I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA.
MOTION FOR MIKE THANK YOU.
SUPPORT JULIA THANK YOU ALL IN
FAVOR.
I OPPOSED MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE APRIL
TWENTY SIXTH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE ZIBA MEETING ARE THERE
ANY QUESTIONS, COMMENTS,
CORRECTIONS MINUTES IF NOT TO
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES?
THANK YOU DANA SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS WE
HAVE PETITIONED ZIBA TWENTY
THREE ZERO ZERO ONE THREE
THIRTY SEVEN TWENTY WINDEMERE
DRIVE.
AS I NOTED, THIS HAS BEEN
POSTPONED SO IF ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE COME FORWARD
NOW WITH YOUR ACCESSING ONLINE
PLEASE USE STANADYNE OR RAISE
YOUR HAND.
THERE DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS.
THANKS COURTNEY.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID RECEIVE
A LETTER FROM DAVID HUTTEN ON
BEHALF OF THE JOURNAL'S
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
OR
EITHER OF YOU HERE FOR THE
THIRTY SEVEN TWENTY WINDERMERE
HEARING.
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NO ONE THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE WILL
MOVE ON PETITIONS ZIBA TWENTY
THREE ZERO ZERO ONE FOR
FOURTEEN ZERO ONE BRIARWOOD
CIRCLE.
I'M JOHN BARRETT, ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY OF ANN
HARBOR.
SIR, DO YOU WANT TO CONTINUE?
OK, HERE WE GO.
PERFECTIVE YOU CAN HAVE A SEAT.
I'M GOING TO DO THE
PRESENTATION.
WE'RE JUST MAKING SURE YOU WERE
HERE.
JAMES HORNEY WITH SIGNS
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING A SIX HUNDRED AND
FORTY NINE POINT THREE FOUR
SQUARE FOOT VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY FOUR
POINT FIVE SUBSECTION B
PERMANENT SIGNS AND OTHER MIXED
USE AND NONRESIDENTIAL SPECIAL
PURPOSE DISTRICTS TO INSTALL A
NEW SIGNED PACKAGE FOR THE
HILTON GARDEN IN THE EXCUSE ME
THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SIGNAGE
FOR THE PROPERTY IS TWO HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET.
THE PROPOSED DESIGN PACKAGE IS
EIGHT HUNDRED AND FORTY NINE
POINT THREE FOUR SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE.
THE PROPERTY IS ON PUDI PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
WITHIN THE BRIARWOOD MALL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN BRIARWOOD
CIRCLE AND THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY AND INTERSTATE
NINETY FOUR TO THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE PARCEL.
THE HOTEL WAS BUILT IN TWO
THOUSAND TWELVE AND IS AND IS
EIGHTY TWO THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED FORTY EIGHT SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE HOTEL RECEIVED THE SAME
PERMIT SIGNED TWELVE DASH ZERO
ZERO THREE NINE THAT WAS
REVIEWED UNDER
CHAPTER SIXTY
ONE SIGNS AND OUTDOOR
ADVERTISING AND APPROVED UNDER
THE PREVIOUS ZONING ORDINANCE
PRIOR TO THE CURRENT UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE THE DEFINITION
OF SIGN AREA AT THE TIME STATES
WHERE A SIGN CONSISTS SOLELY
OF LETTERING PAINTED OR MOUNTED
ON MY WALL ANY BLANK AREA WHICH
IS MORE THAN 10 PERCENT OF THE
AREA OF THE SIGN AS OTHERWISE
COMPUTED SHALL BE DISREGARDED
BASED ON THAT REVIEW CRITERIA,
THE EXISTING SIGNS FOR THE
SUBJECT BUSINESS EXCEED THE
ALLOWABLE TWO HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET OF SIGNAGE THAT IS
CURRENTLY ALLOWED AND ARE NOW
EXISTING NONCONFORMING.
THE SIGN CODE WAS AMENDED IN
DECEMBER TWENTY TWENTY AND SAME
AREA NOW STATES THE AREA OF A
RECTANGLE OR RECTANGLES
ENCLOSING THE EXTREME LIMITS
OF WRITING REPRESENTATION
EMBLEM OR ANY FIGURE OR SIMILAR
CHARACTER ANY SIGN REGARD
OF OPACITY OR MISSING SPACE
WITHIN THE RECTANGLE OR
RECTANGLES.
STAFF AT THE TIME REVIEWED THE
FOUR WALL SIGNS AND IT APPEARS
ONLY THE LETTERING ON THE WALL
SIGNS WAS CALCULATED AND THE
BLANK AREA AIR SPACE WAS
DISREGARDED.
THE PROPOSED DESIGN PACKAGE IS
FOR FOUR WALL SIGNS ONE FOR
ELEVATION AND A NEW DETACHED
GROUND MOUNTED MONUMENT.
SIGN THE SIGNS IN THE NORTH AND
SOUTH ELEVATIONS ARE ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY THREE POINT
FIVE EIGHT SQUARE FEET.
THE SIGNS ON THE EAST AND WEST
ELEVATIONS ARE TWO HUNDRED
SIXTY SIX SQUARE FEET.
THE MONUMENT SIGN IS PROPOSED
TO BE THIRTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
FOR BOTH FACES TOTALING SEVENTY
SQUARE.
YOU ALSO HAVE THE COPY OF THE
PREVIOUS SIGN PERMIT THAT WAS
APPROVED BACK IN 2012.
I'M GOING TO SKIP THE FIRST
TOWER APPLICATION.
THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE ZONING
THAT YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED
PARCEL IN YELLOW AT THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN.
THE SECOND SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
MAP SHOWING THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
YOU SEE IT HIGHLIGHTED IN
YELLOW AT THE SCREENS.
LIKE I SAID, IT'S WEDGED
BETWEEN BRIARWOOD MALL AND
NINETY FOUR.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO AND THE PROPOSED
DESIGN PACKAGE WAS LIKE I SAID
WILL BE ON THE NORTH SOUTH EAST
AND WEST ELEVATIONS AND THEN A
NEW MONUMENT SIGN OUT BY THE
ENTRANCE.
THIS IS A SIGN PLACEMENT MAP
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION BY THE APPLICANT.
THESE ARE SOME PHOTOS FOR YOUR
REFERENCE FOR WHAT THE EXISTING
SIGNED PACKAGES ARE CURRENTLY
THESE PHOTOS WERE SUBMITTED BY
THE APPLICANT.
MORE PHOTOS BY THE APPLICANT
THAT WERE SUBMITTED.
THIS IS THE FRONT ENTRANCE THE
WEST EXCUSE ME THE EAST
ELEVATION AND THIS IS THE WEST
ELEVATION.
THESE ARE THE PROPOSED SIGNS
THAT WERE SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPEAL FOR THE NEW CURRENT
APPLICATION.
THESE WILL GO ON THE EAST AND
WEST SIDES OF THE BUILDING AND
THESE ARE THE ONES THAT ARE TWO
HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX SQUARE
FEET EACH THE NEXT SIGNS ARE ON
THE NORTH AND SOUTH ELEVATIONS
AND THOSE THESE ARE THE
REPRESENTATION OF WHAT THE
CURRENT SIGN APPLICATION IS FOR
AND LIKE I SAID, THOSE ARE A
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY THREE
POINT FIVE EIGHT SQUARE FEET
EACH.
THIS IS THE EXISTING SITE
GROUND MOUNTED MONUMENT SIGN.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK ON MY INSPECTION AT THE
PROPERTY THAT'S THE WEST
ELEVATION AND THAT'S THE NORTH
ELEVATION FACE IN THE INNER
CIRCLE.
I DIDN'T GET A PHOTO OF THE S1
OTHERWISE I'D BEEN OUT BY
NINETY FOUR AND IN THE IN THE
WEEDS THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND I CAN TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
THANKS JOHN BECAUSE IF TODD
WANTS TO GO FIRST HE CAN GO
AHEAD CHRIS.
I GUESS I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS I
AM CURIOUS IS SO IT'S OWN PD IS
THIS PART OF A LARGER PD THAT'S
FOR THE MALL OR IS IT ARE THEY
SEPARATE PODS LIKE SOME OF THE
HOTELS ARE PART OF A ABILITY BY
THEMSELVES AND IF YOU DON'T
KNOW THIS IS A SEPARATE PARTY
BY ITSELF SO IT'S NOT INCLUDED
WITH THE THEY ARE NO.
THEY WERE DEVELOPED DIFFERENT
TIME FRAMES AND SO MY NEXT
QUESTION IS IS THERE ANYTHING
IN OUR ORDINANCE WHICH WOULD
PREVENT SOMEONE WHO'S PROPOSING
A PARTY OR TWO AND APPEARED
FROM FROM IN INCLUDING IN THEIR
APPLICATION A SPECIFIC SITE
SORRY SIGNED PACKAGE THAT IS
OUTSIDE THE BOUNDS OF OUR SIGN
ORDINANCE THE WAY THEY MIGHT
FOR OTHER REGULATIONS.
SO THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE
SOMETHING THAT WAS APPROVED
DURING THE PROCESS AND REQUIRED
AS A SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION
AND THIS WAS NOT PART OF A
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION BUT
THAT ABILITY EXISTS IF SOMEONE
PURSUED IT.
SO YOU'RE SO SOMEONE WOULD HAVE
TO REZONE THIS CHANGE THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS TO GO
BACK TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION?
YEAH, I JUST I JUST LET IT GO.
YOU SHOULD DO I JUST CURIOUS IF
IT'S A POSSIBILITY.
I BELIEVE THAT'S ANOTHER AVENUE
THAT THEY COULD TAKE.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO I WENT BY THIS WEEKEND TO
LOOK THERE ARE A BUNCH
OF LITTLE RIESLINGS THEY'RE
ADORABLE RIGHT IN FRONT OF THE
HOTEL.
YEAH JOHN I WAS ACTUALLY
CONFUSING THIS EVEN EVEN THOUGH
I READ IT TWICE MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THE SIGNAGE
WE'RE LOOKING AT IS WHAT WAS
THERE IN 2012 THE BUILDING WAS
BUILT WAS THIS NEW THAT WAS IN
2012.
NOW THEY'RE GOING TO CHANGE THE
FONT A LITTLE BIT AND AND
EMBLEM AS WELL AS YOU CAN SEE
THAT THEY DON'T HAVE THAT
EMBLEM BUT THEY WANT TO
BASICALLY CHANGE THE LETTERING
AND THE FONT STYLE A LITTLE BIT
AND HAVE THE SAME SIZE.
OK, BUT I THINK THAT MIGHT BE A
BETTER QUESTION DIRECTED
TOWARDS THE APPLICANTS AS WELL.
THE CONFUSING PART IS THE TWO
WORDS.
SO WHEN THIS WAS BUILT IN 2012
IT WAS OK BUT THEN WITH THE
WORDING CHANGE IN DECEMBER
TWENTY IT BECAME NONCONFORMING.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU GRACE.
DID YOU HAVE A QUESTION AND THE
ANSWER?
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE AND
WHICH IS TO COME FORWARD YOU
CAN SPEAK YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES OF HELLO I'M JAMES.
YES, VIRGINIA JONES.
BASICALLY WE'RE ASKING FOR THE
SIGNAGE BECAUSE IT DOES
ACTUALLY MATCH UP WITH WITH THE
EXISTING SIGNAGE AS FAR AS
SQUARE FOOTAGE LIKE HE STATED,
THE FONT DOES CHANGE AND THEY
DID ADD THE LOGO AND WITH IT
BEING SO FAR OFF OF YOU KNOW I
MEAN THE TREES NINETY FOUR AND
SO FAR OFF OF ANY MAIN ROAD
BEING BEHIND BRIARWOOD MALL,
THAT'S WHY WE'RE STILL TRYING
TO STICK TO THE FOR SIGNS.
YOU DID STATE THAT THERE WAS A
NEW MONUMENT AND WE'RE JUST
CHANGING THE FACE OF THAT.
IT'S STILL THE SAME SIGN AND IT
IS ONLY SINGLE SIDED.
IT'S NOT DOUBLE SIDED SO THAT
WOULDN'T CHANGE MUCH JUST A
PHASE CHANGE IN UPGRADING.
THAT'S A PRETTY MUCH YOU KNOW
WHY WE'RE ASKING FOR WE'RE NOT
WE'RE NOT CHANGING THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE THAT WAS APPROVED IN
2012.
WE'RE STICKING WITH THE SAME
THING JUST UPGRADING THE THE
WHOLE HOTEL IS UPGRADING SO
WE'RE JUST UPGRADING SIGNS WITH
IT.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS, TODD?
YES, SIR.
SO YOUR EXPLANATION IS LAID
SOME OF MY CONCERNS IT SEEMS
LIKE IT'S REALLY A SMALL CHANGE
BUT I DROVE BY A COUPLE OF THE
SITES TODAY.
MY WIFE AND I DROVE DOWN ON
SOUTH STATE STREET THEN CRUISED
ALONG I 94 AND AS YOU KNOW YOU
CAN'T SEE ANY OF THE HOTELS
FROM 894.
YEAH.
SO YOU'D HAVE TO HAVE A
MONSTROUS SIGN OF , YOU KNOW,
150 FEET HIGH.
IN FACT YOU CAN'T ALTHOUGH
PERHAPS IN THE WINTER WEATHER
YOU CAN GET A LITTLE GLIMPSE.
SO THEN WE GOT OFF AT AND
OBVIOUSLY IN TUBAC AND
EISENHOWER WENT SOUTH AND SOUTH
AT THE INTERSECTION OF SOUTH
MAIN AND BRIARWOOD CIRCLE.
I COULD CLEARLY SEE ALREADY THE
HILTON GARDEN AND ALL THE WAY
ACROSS THE PARKING LOT AND THE
RED SIDE AT THE TOP.
SO IT'S CLEARLY VISIBLE CRACK
AND THEN I PROCEEDED TO COUNTER
CLOCKWISE AROUND BRIARWOOD
CIRCLE AND THE BUILDING IS I
GUESS THE WORD THAT COMES TO
MIND IS IMPOSING THE SIGNAGE IS
CRYSTAL CLEAR.
THERE'S ANOTHER HOTEL WHOSE
NAMES I FORGET AND WE WENT BY
THE KENSINGTON HOTEL, YOU KNOW,
THE VERY STANDARD BROADWOOD AND
THEY EENY MEENY LITTLE SIGN BUT
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT'S
HURTING THEIR BUSINESS AND
THEIR PARKING LOT WAS PRETTY
FULL.
SO THE QUESTION IS WHY?
I MEAN WHY HE DID THIS.
IT SEEMS SORT OF SILLY REALLY.
I MEAN YOU'VE GOT GREAT SIGNAGE
OUT.
WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?
THAT'S YOU KNOW THERE'S A
SERIES OF COMPANIES DE BRANDING
OR REBRANDING AND THEY'RE
CHANGING THEIR LOGO A LITTLE
BIT AND THAT'S THAT'S A REASON
FOR THE UPGRADE.
SO WE DENHA WITH WITH A
BUILDING OF I THINK YOU STATED
ALMOST NINETY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET.
YOU KNOW, YOU WOULD EXPECT A
BIGGER SIGN THERE THE BUILDING
NEXT DOOR IT'S CALLED COUNTRY
SOMETHING YOU KNOW THEIR SIGN
IS VERY SMALL.
I'VE BEEN THERE A MILLION
TIMES.
I CAN'T TELL YOU THE NAME OF IT
,YOU KNOW, WITH A WITH A
BIGGER NAME.
I MEAN IT'S MORE YOU KNOW, PART
OF THE CONCERN I THINK IS
YOU'RE WORRIED ABOUT, YOU KNOW,
GETTING BUSINESS BUT REALLY
NOBODY FINDS HOTELS TODAY BY
DRIVING AROUND AND LOOKING AT A
HOTEL.
IT'S BOOKING DOTCOM
, EXPEDIA,
DOTCOM, GOOGLE MAPS, WHATEVER
THE SIGNAGE IS REALLY
SUPERFLUOUS, ISN'T IT?
YEAH, I MEAN, YOU KNOW AND
WE'RE NOT CHANGING THE SIGNAGE.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE CHANGING THE
THE OVERALL LOOK WE'RE NOT
CHANGING THE BUT REASON COULD
BE THAT YOU'RE WORRIED ABOUT IF
THE SIGN CHANGES MEAN THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO LOSE BUSINESS.
THAT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO ME.
YOU AGREE THAT I I DON'T I
DON'T KNOW.
I DO I DON'T RUN ANY OF THE
HOTEL.
I'M SIMPLY DOING THE SIGNAGE.
I DON'T KNOW OUR NUMBERS ARE
SORRY IF IT'S MURDER ON THE
SPOT.
IF I COULD HELP ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION.
YES, I THINK THERE'S A COUPLE
OF THINGS PLAY IT'S GOOD YOU
DROVE AROUND.
I APPRECIATE THAT FOR THINGS I
THINK WHEN WE LIVE IN THE CITY
WE'RE VERY COMFORTABLE WITH THE
ROADS AND WE'RE FINE PICKING
OUR HEAD UP AND LOOKING AROUND.
IF YOU THINK ABOUT WIND COMING
OFF THE INTERSTATE, GET THE
TRAFFIC CIRCLE ON THE ONE SIDE
THAT CAN BE A BIT OF A CHORE TO
NAVIGATE IF YOU'RE NOT FROM THE
AREA AND THEN YOU COME THE
OTHER WAY.
THERE'S A LOT OF STUFF SORT
OF BLOCKING YOUR VIEW FROM THE
HOTEL.
SO I MEAN THE SIGNAGE DOES HELP
WITHOUT SIGNAGE YOU WOULD JUST
LOOK LIKE AN OFFICE BUILDING
LIKE ANY OF THE OTHER ONES IN
THERE.
I MEAN THAT THE SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN BUILDING OBVIOUSLY IS
PROBABLY SIX AT THE MOST IF
ANYTHING DOWN THERE.
SO SIGNAGE IS HELPFUL IN TERMS
OF THAT OUT OF TOWN GUESTS
NAVIGATING HIMSELF THERE AS FAR
AS DRIVING BUSINESS, YEAH, THE
WINTERTIME CERTAINLY EASIER TO
SEE THAT SIGN ON THE INTERSTATE
THAN IT IS DURING THE DURING
THE MORE BEAUTIFUL TIME WITH
ALL THE LEAVES OUT.
BUT WE DO PICK UP BETWEEN TWO
AND SEVEN ROOM WALK SEVEN WALK
WALKING TONIGHT WHERE IT'S NOT
BOOKED.
I'M BOOKING OR SOMEONE COMES IN
AND SAYS I'M TIRED.
THIS IS A PLACE I'M GOING TO
STAY.
I SEE A SIGN THEY DRIVE AROUND
THE PARK AND WE BOOK THEM RIGHT
THERE THAT EVENING.
NOW YOU KNOW WEEKENDS AH THAT
HAPPENS A LOT MORE THAN IT DOES
DURING A WEEKDAY BUT YEAH IT
DOES DRIVE SOME BUSINESS TO US
AND WHICH IN TURN HELPS DRIVE
BUSINESS.
YOU KNOW EVERY ROOM IS THREE
PERCENT TO THE CITIES ARE I
GUESS NO FIVE PERCENT THE CITY
SO IT HELPS US ALL.
THANK YOU SIR.
ABSOLUTELY.
CAN YOU PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
JUST FOR JASON QANOON, GENERAL
MANAGER AT THE HOTEL?
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
I HAVE A QUESTION.
SO THIS IS SIMPLY A ONE FOR ONE
REPLACEMENT.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
I JUST GOT ONE STATEMENT BASED
ON THE FACT THAT IT'S NOT GOING
BE A DOUBLE FACED MAN MONUMENTS
JUST MAKE NOTE DURING THE
MOTION ALSO THAT IT'S NO LONGER
GOING TO BE EIGHT FORTY NINE
POINT THIRTY FOUR IT'S GOING TO
BE EIGHT FOURTEEN POINT THIRTY
FOUR IS THE ACTUAL VARIANCE
REQUEST.
SO IT'S THIRTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
LESS SORRY.
CAN'T BE THAT NO MORE TIME
FOURTEEN POINT THREE FOR THANK
YOU.
RIGHT IF ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING NOW PLEASE COME FORWARD
IF ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE THERE DON'T
APPEAR TO BE ANY COLOR.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
I DO NOT BELIEVE WE RECEIVED
ANY COMMUNICATION ON THIS
PETITION.
SO WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
CHRIS.
OH OK.
SO AND I DON'T WANT LOSE
ANYBODY BUT I THINK IT'S
HOPEFULLY PRETTY CLEAR FROM MY
QUESTIONS SO RIGHT.
THE FIRST THING IS JUST THAT
THERE IS ANOTHER PATH FOR THEM
IF THEY WANT TO TO GET NEAR A
YOU DIFFERENT REGULATIONS FOR
SIGNS WITHIN THEIR PD, PD CAN
HAVE A SEPARATE AS HE REFERRED
TO IT SUPPLEMENTAL SET OF RULES
YOU CAN APPLY TO MEN TO THE
PARTY.
THAT IS A VERY BIG STEP FOR FOR
FOR SIGNS BUT BUT THE
POSSIBILITY EXISTS RIGHT.
AND SO I THINK THAT FOR ME
THERE'S DEBATE ABOUT WHETHER WE
ARE EVEN THE RIGHT VENUE AND
THE REASON IS WHEN WHEN THE
SIGNS WERE BUILT.
RIGHT.
THEY THEY WERE BUILT TO
STANDARDS THAT WERE PUT IN
PLACE AND SHE SAID THESE ARE
THE TYPES OF SIGNS HOW BIG WE
WANT THEM TO BE AND THEN WE
DECIDE I MEAN NOT US BUT AS A
CITY WE DECIDED WE WANT SIGNS
THAT ARE SMALLER AND SO THOSE
WHO BUILT BIGGER SIGNS IN THE
PAST CAN KEEP THEIRS FOR AS
LONG AS THEY WANT.
BUT ONCE YOU DECIDE TO CHANGE
IT, YOU HAVE TO COMPLY WITH THE
NEW RULES.
THAT'S THAT NONCONFORMING
STATUS RIGHT.
AND SO I DON'T THINK THAT THERE
IS ACTUALLY ANY HARDSHIP HERE.
RIGHT.
THERE ARE NEW RULES WHICH
EVERYONE HAS TO COMPLY WITH
WHETHER YOU'RE BUILDING A NEW
SIGN OR YOU'RE CHANGING AN
EXISTING SIGN AND SO THEY HAVE
THE ABILITY TO KEEP THE SITE IN
PLACE AND I TOTALLY GET IT
RIGHT, PELTON'S SAID WE WANT
NEW SIGNS.
WE HAD NEW BRANDING.
RIGHT AND THAT'S FINE AND THEY
CAN DO THAT IF THEY FOLLOW OUR
OUR CURRENT RULES.
AND SO I THINK THAT IF WE WERE
TO TO APPROVE IT WELL, WE'D BE
SAYING IT'S IT IS ZIBA CAN NOW
DECIDE HOW BIG SIGNS CAN BE IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND I DON'T
REALLY WANT TO BE MAKING THAT
DECISION RIGHT.
I WANT TO FOLLOW THE RULES
UNLESS THERE IS SOME SORT
OF HARDSHIP.
BUT I DON'T THINK THIS SITE THE
BUILDING REALLY PRESENTS A
HARDSHIP AND SO NOT ONLY DO I
THINK THAT IT DOESN'T REALLY
MEET THE CRITERIA TO TO BE
APPROVED FOR VARIANCE, I DO
THINK IF IT WAS SOMETHING IT
WAS NEEDED AND WANTED ENOUGH
THAT THERE IS TECHNICALLY
ANOTHER AVENUE TOWARDS APPROVAL
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M GOING TO BE
VOTING NO MIKE, APPRECIATE
CHRIS'S POINT.
I'M GOING TO GO THE OTHER THIS
VOTE YES.
I THINK BECAUSE IT'S THE ONE
FOR ONE REPLACEMENT I THINK IT
IS A UNIQUE LOCATION OF THE
BUILDING.
THIS IS ON THE EDGE OF A
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
I KNOW WHEN PEOPLE COME TO TOWN
TO STAY IN A HOTEL IN A PLACE
THEY'VE NOT BEEN TO BEFORE
WHERE THIS HOTEL IS THERE'S A
BUNCH OF HOTELS.
THE MALL CAN BE REALLY
CONFUSING.
SO GIVEN THAT IT'S JUST
REPLACING THE CURRENT SIZE
OF THE SIGN AND WHERE THE
BUILDING IS AND WHAT IT'S USED
FOR A HOTEL WHERE YOU'VE GOT
PEOPLE COMING IN LATE AT NIGHT,
THEY'RE TIRED.
THEY JUST WANT TO GET TO WHERE
THEY'RE GOING.
I'M GOING TO VOTE YES ON THIS
.
JUST ONE MORE THING AND I
TOTALLY GET WHERE YOU COME FROM
JUST AS WE GO THROUGH AND THINK
ABOUT IT.
JUST REMEMBER THAT IF YOU WANT
TO BUILD A NEW HOTEL RIGHT AND
HARBOR YOU, YOU WILL NOT GET
THIS ADVANTAGE AND THAT'S WHAT
IT IS.
RIGHT, BECAUSE IT'S A ONE FOR
ONE REPLACEMENT OR WHATEVER.
IT'S AN ADVANTAGE THAT OTHER
PROPERTY OWNERS MIGHT NOT ENJOY
BECAUSE THEY APPLY TO BUILD
SITES FOR THE FIRST TIME EVEN
JUST A COUPLE OF YEARS LATER.
AND SO YOU I JUST I HOPE THAT
WE DON'T VOTE TO GIVE BENEFITS
TO CERTAIN PROPERTY OWNERS
BASED AND WHEN THEY APPLIED TO
BUILD THINGS AND YOU KNOW, THEY
STILL HAVE THE ABILITY TO KEEP
THAT SIGN IN PLACE TO DO THIS.
SO JULIA JOHN, THIS IS A
QUESTION ABOUT THE SPECIFICALLY
SIGNED SO LIKE NORMALLY A
VARIANCE STAYS WITH THE
BUILDING.
SO IF IN TEN YEARS THIS IS IN A
HOTEL AND IT BECOMES A HAUNTED
HOUSE, IS THAT THE SIGN THAT
THEY WOULD HAVE THE BIG SIGNS
THEY WOULDN'T HAVE TO CHANGE
IT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, MIKE.
AND THE THE OTHER THING I'LL
SAY IS NEW HOTELS CAN APPLY FOR
VARIOUS TO RIGHT AND IF THEIR
THEY'RE HOTELS IN A UNIQUE
PLACE THEY CAN ARGUE THAT.
SO IT'S NOT JUST PEOPLE
REPLACING ANYONE FROM
NORTHBOURNE AND WE EXIST TO
MAKE EXCEPTIONS TO RULES.
RIGHT.
OR ELSE WE DON'T HAVE A BOARD.
I GUESS I'M NOT SAYING WHAT'S
EXCEPTIONAL ABOUT THE SITE IN
COMPARISON TO THE OTHER ONES
THAT ARE ALONG THE SAME
CORRIDOR AS THE PETITIONER
MENTIONED, THERE ARE SEVERAL
THERE.
SO I THINK THAT YOUR SENSE IS
RIGHT THAT WE KIND OF HAVE TO
BE CONSISTENT IN HOW WE THINK
ABOUT THIS AND THINK ABOUT
WHETHER THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY IS EXCEPTIONAL TO
THIS PROPERTY DOESN'T EXIST
THROUGHOUT THE REST OF THE CITY
AND I DON'T SEE THAT BEING MET
HERE ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION.
WE'RE READY FOR MOTION.
CHRIS.
I THINK WE'RE READY.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
BASED ON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS
AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT TO FOUR POINT FIVE B
PERMANENT SIGNS OTHER MIXED USE
IN NONRESIDENTIAL END SPECIAL
PURPOSE DISTRICTS TO INSTALL A
NEW SITE AND PACKAGE FOR THE
HILTON GARDEN IN THE MAXIMUM
ALLOWABLE SIGNAGE FOR THE
PROPERTY IS TWO HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET PROPOSED THE SAME PACKAGE
IS EIGHT HUNDRED AND FOURTEEN
POINT THREE FOUR SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE.
THANK YOU GRACE CHRISTINA
SUPPORT YES JULIA NO TED NO
CHRIS NO GRACE NO.
I ALSO KNOW DHARMA NO MIKE YES
.
THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE
TWO SIX ZERO ONE SOUTH STATE
STREET.
SO ALEXIS DELIO, SENIOR PLANNER
IS GOING TO REPRESENT THIS
PETITION THIS EVENING AND
PRESENT IT
.
SO THANK YOU MR TO START WITH.
SURE.
THAT MUCH AS THE
TWENTY ONE TO
FIFTEEN HOW DO YOU FROM THE
FLOOR AREA RATIO WHICH IS THAT
GREEN USED FOR GRADE BY PARKING
MUST BE COUNTED FOR EVERY
RACIAL CONFUSION I IT'S NOT
UNTIL THE SUBJECT IS INCLUDES
THREE PETITIONS ULTIMATELY
APPROVED BY COMMISSION COUNTY
CITY COUNCIL IS A PETITION TO
RESOLVE A ONE POINT SEVENTY
BLOCK CONSISTS OF TEN PARCELS
FUNDED BY STATE STREET HUNGRY
WHITE CITIZENS FROM MULTIPLE
REQUEST TO SEE WHAT IS LEFT
OF THIS BUSINESS COMMERCIAL.
I PROPOSE TO PUT SOME
CONDITIONS FOR IT TO BE A
CONDITIONAL ALSO ESTATE PLAN IS
PROPOSED TO REDEVELOP AND BUILD
A STORY THAT DOESN'T INCLUDE
ANY LINKS TO THE RESIDENTIAL ON
THE UPPER FLOORS THERE'S A
THIRD PETITION FOR A STREET
VACATION FOR A SMALL PORTION
OF A PLANET THAT YOU WOULD NOT
GO WITH THE WOULD BE PROPOSED
REZONING TO THIS BEACH SEE ONE
A SLASH DISTRICT BY DISTRICT
COUNCIL THE FLOOR ELEVATION
OF THREE PERCENT TO THE TOTAL
AREA INCLUDING THE LAND OF THIS
SIZE CAN HAVE UP TO TWO
THOUSAND SIX TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED
TWENTY FOUR SQUARE FEET
OF FLOOR THAT OR ANY CANDIDATE
ANY SUPERSTARS AS LONG THAT
LIMIT THE C ONE EIGHT PLUS OUR
DISTRICT ALSO HAS A PREMIUM.
WE WILL GO UP TO 8000 SQUARE
FEET OF WATER FOR PEDESTRIANS
AND THIS PROJECT USING THAT
PREMIUM.
SO IF YOU ADD THESE FOUR AREAS
THAT THEY ARE COMMITTED TO
THREE HUNDRED WHAT YOU'RE WHAT
A THOUSAND SQUARE FEET YOU'LL
COME UP WITH A TOTAL OF TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOUR
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY
FOUR SQUARE SCORE FOR THIS
PROJECT THAT TRANSLATES INTO
HOW TO DELIVER THEM APPLES AND
ORANGES.
THAT TRANSLATES TO THREE
HUNDRED AND ELEVEN PERCENT THE
PROPOSED PROJECTO MEASURE BY
SEVERAL AREAS IS INCLUDED THAT
IS THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT TAX
TWO HUNDRED SIX THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED SEVENTY SQUARE FEET UP
TO THE AREA THAT THEY ARE THREE
HUNDRED POINT FIVE PERCENT BUT
IT WILL TAKE OUT BEFORE IT IS
REALLY IN THE PROCESS
OF BUILDING YOU WILL TAKE OUT
TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND SQUARE
FOOT IN THE AREA.
WE WILL DO THE MATH AND YOU'LL
GET THREE HUNDRED AND EIGHT
PERCENT THAT THEY ARE DISTRICT
REPORT NOTES.
HOW DO YOU SEE THE
CODE REGULATES DEVELOPMENT IN
TWO WAYS DEPENDING ON THE
DESIGNATIONS RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS ARE REGULATED DENSITY
THERE IS NOT ANY STANDARD THE
AMOUNT OF FLOOR OF THE BUILDING
BUT WE DO REGULATE A NUMBER
OF TWENTY FIVE PERCENT OF MIXED
USE DISTRICT.
WE DON'T REGULATE MY DENSITY.
ANY NUMBER OF UNITS CAN BE ON
THE SITE BUT TO REGULATE HOW
MUCH THE VAST BULK OF THE
BUILDING CAN ALSO DISTRICT.
WE DO THAT FOR AREA RATIO
OF THE VARIANCE FOR YOU HINGES
ON THE DEFINITION OF A FLOOR
FLOOR AREA RATIO AND THOSE ARE
MOST IMPORTANT.
THOSE COME DIRECTLY FROM THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE .
EACH ONE OF THEM SORT OF BUILDS
UPON EACH OTHER TO GET TO THE
DEFINITION OF FLOOR AREA RATIO
YOU MUST LOOK AT THE DEFINITION
OF FLOOR AREA AND DETERMINE
FROM OUR AREA.
LET'S LOOK AT THE DEFINITION
OF A FLOOR AND IN THE END ARE
BASICALLY THE FLAT SURFACES
OF A BUILDING.
THE FLOOR AREA IS A SEPARATE
AREA FROM EXTERIOR WALL TO WALL
ALL INCLUSIVE ARE GENERALLY ALL
INCLUSIVE EXCEPT FOR THINGS
THAT KIND OF DON'T HAVE A FLOOR
STAIRWELL ELEVATOR SHAFTS AND
DEDICATED MECHANICAL SHOOTS OR
CHASES AND FOR A RATIO IT'S
JUST ABOUT FORMULA.
YOU TAKE THE SUM THE FLOOR AREA
AND DON'T GET A PERCENTAGE
OF THE LOFT AREA.
WHAT THE PROJECT IS ASKING FOR
IS A NOTICE FROM THE DEFINITION
OF FLOOR AREA RATIO TO ALSO
EXCLUDE FLOOR AREA USED FOR
PARKING NOT JUST BELOW GRADE
PARKING BUT FOR PARKING WAS
GREETED BY THE TOTAL PROJECT
WILL MEET THE DEFINITION FOR
RATIO AND THEREFORE THE CITY
COUNCIL CAN APPROVE IT BECAUSE
IT MEETS THE STANDARDS OF THE
ZONING DISTRICT FOR WHICH IT
APPLIED THE STEP IN THE STAFF
REPORT AS NORMAL GOES THROUGH
WITH THE CRITERIA THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS SHOULD APPLY
WHEN CONSIDERING A APPLICATION
AND EACH OF THE APPLICANTS
RESPONSES HAVE ALSO INCLUDED IN
THE PACKAGE THE PLANNING STAFF
REPORT REGARDING THOSE THREE
PETITIONS YOU SHOULD NOTE THAT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION HELD A
PUBLIC HEARING ABOUT ALL THREE
PETITIONS LAST TUESDAY AND
POSTPONE ACTION ON THEM.
THEY HAVE A FEW OUTSTANDING
QUESTIONS AND WE DO HAVE SOME
OUTSTANDING STAFF COMMENTS
RELATED TO THE SITE PLAN THAT
NEED TO BE RESOLVED.
BUT ALSO ONE OF THE REASONS WAS
THEY NEED VARIANCE IN ORDER TO
COME IN ORDER FOR THE
ULTIMATELY APPROVED WE CAN GO
THROUGH THE SLIDES.
SO FIRST IF YOU TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS, THE
FIRST SLIDE IS THE THE ZONING
MAP AND YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED
BLOCK THAT IS THE SUBJECT FOR
THIS EVENING AND HIGHLIGHTED IN
YELLOW WHEN YOU'RE IN THE
CENTER OF THE SCREEN, ANYTHING
ELSE YOU WANT TO ADD TO THAT
ALEXI'S WELL, JUST STATE STREET
IS ON THE LEFT.
HENRY STREET IS ON THE TOP
OF THIS BLOCK RIGHT STREET IS
ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF A BLOCK
AND STIMPSON IS ON THE BOTTOM
OF THE BLOCK.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA
PHOTO.
YES.
YEAH.
SO IT'S THE SAME OF YOU
ORIENTATION BUT NOW YOU'LL GET
A YOU'LL RECOGNIZE A FEW MORE
FAMILIAR LANDMARKS THE EAST
RIVER BRIDGE OF THE MICHIGAN
STADIUM AND OVER THE RAILROAD
TRACKS IS VISIBLE HERE AND YOU
CAN SEE THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN GOLF COURSE HERE AS
WELL IS AN AERIAL PHOTO.
EXACTLY AN AERIAL PHOTO AND YOU
CAN SEE JUST BY THE PATTERN
OF A WHAT'S THE PUBLIC THAT HAS
BEEN FLATTENED THERE?
BUT YOU'LL NOTICE IT'S ALSO
GREEN.
THERE'S A COUPLE OF TREES THERE
THAT UNIMPROVED THIS IS THE
SITE PLAN AND IT IS THE
EXISTING CONDITION.
SHE CHOSE THE REMOVAL SO YOU
CAN SEE THAT EVERYTHING HAS TO
BE REMOVED SO YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE PUBLIC IS SUPPOSED TO BE
CLEARED.
THIS IS ALSO FROM THE SITE AND
THIS IS THE LAYOUT SHEET THE
SITE PLAN FOR LEVEL ONE WHICH
IS THE GROUND FLOOR PORTIONS
OF OF THE SCENE HERE THE THE
THE PROPOSED BUILDING.
BUT THAT'S MORE OF A CONDITION
SPACE AND THE CENTER OF THE
PARKING AREA YOUR ACCESS THIS
AREA FROM A DRIVEWAY ON MAIN
STREET AND JUST A COUPLE
OF ROWS OF PARKING IN THERE.
THERE'S ABOUT FIFTY FOUR I
COULD BE WRONG BUT IT'S AROUND
FIFTY FOUR SPACES IN THERE THIS
BUT THIS VIEW WILL ALSO SHOW
YOU THAT BUILDING MOST OF THE
BLOCK THE GREEN GRASS AND
LANDSCAPE AREAS THOSE ARE NOT
THE ONLY LANDSCAPE AREAS BUT
THOSE ARE THE AREAS THAT DOES
HAVE A FEW PEDESTRIAN PLAZAS
ALL AROUND IT AND PLUS PUBLIC
SIDEWALKS RIGHT THERE WHERE
JOHN IS CIRCLING ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE PROJECT IS THE
PLAZA THAT IS PROVIDING THEIR
INDUSTRIAL AMENITY.
THIS IS LEVEL TWO.
IT SHOWS THEN THE BUILDING
RISING UP BUT IT SHOWS YOU HOW
THE PARKING AREA IS COVERED AND
IT'S GOT A PATTERN ON IT THAT
SHOWING YOU ON TOP OF THAT ROOF
OF THE PARKING STRUCTURE
UPCHUCKING AREA IS SO PAVING
AND SOME MORE LANDSCAPING, SOME
PLANTERS AND SO FORTH.
THE PUBLIC IS WILL BE ALLOWED
TO WALK UPSTAIRS BOTH ON THE
NORTH AND THE SOUTH AND CROSS
OVER A LITTLE BIT OF A DASH
LINE.
YOU'LL BE GOING ON TOP OF THE
PARKING AREA IN BETWEEN THE
SECOND SPACES BUT THE THIRD
FLOOR WILL COVER THAT SMALL
SPOT IN THE MIDDLE THAT'S LIKE
A COMPLETE Z EXACTLY RIGHT
THERE IT IS AGAIN SHOWING A
LANDSCAPE PLAN SO SHOWING YOU
LEVEL TWO OF THE PROJECT NEXT
SLIDE.
>> YEAH,
NOW THIS SLIDES I
THINK THE IMPORTANT PART TO
HELP UNDERSTAND WHAT'S GOING ON
IS THE LITTLE PART ON THE RIGHT
SIDE OF YOUR SCREEN SHOWING THE
BUILDING PODIUM AND THERE'S A
WORD FOR THAT.
IS IT TRUE THAT YOU HAVE AN AND
THAT'S MUCH LARGER THAN THE
BUILDING A SHOWING IN GREEN AND
BUILDING BCD THAT'S SHOWN IN
BLUE AND THAT'S LED THESE ALSO
THESE ARE CALLED ECONOMETRIC
VIEWS IN TERMS MONK AND I D
THESE WERE VERY HELPFUL TO ALL
THE STAFF IS WERE EXTREMELY
HELPFUL TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I FEEL THAT THEY
WILL BE HELPFUL TO YOU TO
UNDERSTAND THE DIMENSION, THE
SCALE, THE BULK AND THE MASS
OF THE BUILDING AND HOW IT IS
RISING UP AND THAT IS OR IS NOT
PART OF THE THE BASE OF THE
BUILDING.
I THINK THAT CONCLUDES THE
PRESENTATION.
I AM HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
I KNOW THAT THERE WAS A LOT
OF NUMBERS THAT I WENT OVER.
I WOULD JUST SAY PERHAPS THAT
THE EXACT NUMBERS ARE NOT MY
EXACT NUMBERS ARE NOT THE
IMPORTANT PART.
THE HARD IS THE THE SENSE
OF SCALE, THE PROPORTIONALITY
IF YOU DO MEASURE THIS PROJECT
FROM EXTERIOR FACE EXTRA SPACE,
HOW COME UP WITH A CERTAIN
NUMBER BUT THEY ARE ASKING TO
EXCLUDE SPECIF USE FROM THOSE
NUMBERS AND IF WE DO THE MATH
THEN EXCLUDING THAT CATEGORY
THE NUMBERS ARE SMALLER.
THANKS ALEXIS.
QUESTIONS CHRIS.
SO I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS AND I
THINK THAT EITHER ALEXIS OR
JOHN COULD ANSWER THEM AND
THAT'S I THINK YOUR
PRESENTATION WAS GREAT.
SO THANK YOU.
THE FIRST ONE IS WE DID
OFFICIALLY ADOPT AN ORANGE
CHANGE.
THAT MEANS THAT THERE'S NO
SPECIFIC PARKING REQUIREMENT
FOR THIS TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT OR
ARE THEY HELD TO A STANDARD
OF A CERTAIN SIZE?
THAT IS CORRECT.
THERE IS NO PARKING THAT IS
REQUIRED.
OK, THEY ARE CHOOSING MORE
CHOOSING TO PROVIDE THOSE FIFTY
SOME SPACES THAT TURNS OUT TO A
RATE OF ONE SPACE FOR EVERY
FOUR DWELLING UNITS OR A
QUARTER SPACE PER DWELLING UNIT
PARKING NOT PROHIBITED IN THE
CITY BUT IT IS NOT REQUIRED.
OK AND THEN THE SECOND QUESTION
IS IS THE APPROPRIATE ACTION
FOR US TO TAKE TONIGHT TO
CONSIDER A VARIANCE OR IS IT
WITH BE MORE APPROPRIATE TO TO
TO DO AN INTERPRETATION?
THE ORDINANCE AS I THINK BOTH
WOULD SOLVE KIND OF THE
QUESTION AT HAND JUST JUST A
THOUGHT.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE IF WE MADE A MOTION
THAT WAS AN OFFICIAL
INTERPRETATION THAT SAID, YOU
KNOW, FA SHOULD NOT INCLUDE
MAYBE THAT'S TOO FAR REACHING
NOW AND A VARIANCE IS MORE SITE
SPECIFIC AND IT'S JUST A
THOUGHT AND QUESTION JUST
THOUGHT FOR STAFF.
SO THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN UP TO
THE APPLICANT.
OK TO REQUEST AN ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERPRETATION RATHER THAN A
VARIANCE AND THEY SUBMITTED A
VARIANCE APPLICATION.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
I WOULD JUST ADD THAT IN MY
OPINION IF YOU ASK ME FOR MY
OPINION THAT THE DEFINITIONS
ARE VERY CLEAR THAT NO MATTER
WHAT THE SPACE IS USED FOR A
COUNTS TOWARDS THAT IT IS FOR
AREA AND IT CALSTRS THAT THEY
ARE NOT SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDED.
SO I DON'T THINK THEY HAVE.
SO MY OPINION IS THIS IS NOT A
MATTER OF INTERPRETATION.
I BELIEVE IT'S VERY CLEAR THAT
THAT IS A FLAW IN IT'S ENCLOSED
SPACE.
IT CAN BE CONVERTED TO ANY
OTHER USE OF CONVERTING TO ANY
OTHER USE AND IT IS NOT LOW SO
THAT THE CORRECT ACTION IS
VARIANCE NOW IT IS A MATTER
OF INTERPRETATION WHETHER THEY
GET A BIT OF VARIANCE FROM THE
DEFINITION WHICH THEY'VE ASKED
FOR OR A DEFINITION FROM THE
AREA PLEASE STANDARDS THAT
THREE HUNDRED THAT NUMBER THREE
HUNDRED BUT IN TERMS
OF VARIANCE OR INTERPRETATION
MY MY OPINION IS THAT THE
DEFINITION IS VERY CLEAR SO
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN AN
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL PROCESS
WHERE THEY WOULD HAVE BEEN A
DISAGREEMENT OVER AN
INTERPRETATION, THEY WOULD HAVE
REQUESTED A ADMINISTRATIVE
DECISION AND THEN THEY WOULD
APPEAL THAT DECISION.
WE'D BE HERE FOR AN APPEAL
TONIGHT BUT THAT'S NOT THE
CASE.
GOCHA, THANK YOU.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
THOUGHTS ON THAT.
SO THANK SO ALEXIS, I HAVE A
QUESTION AND I COULD BE
COMPLETELY MISREMEMBERING BUT I
FEEL LIKE THERE IS IS A
DISTRICT IN THE UDC THAT ALLOWS
YOU TO EXCLUDE PARKING FROM
FARC.
IS THAT S.E.C ONE THAT THAT'S
ALLOWED OR THE ZONING THAT
STILL SAYS THAT PARKING THAT IS
BELOW GRADE DOES NOT COUNT
TOWARDS FARC NO MATTER HOW MUCH
THERE IS ONE FLOOR SEVEN
FLOORS.
IT ALSO SAYS THAT REQUIRED
PARKING FOR PREMIUM FOR AREA OR
REQUIRED PARKING THAT'S
SPECIFIED IN A PLAN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT IN A DISTRICT
DOESN'T COUNT AND IT'S STILL
WRITTEN THERE BUT THE
REQUIREMENTS ARE ZERO SO IT'S
ALMOST USELESS THERE.
IT SAID IF YOU CAN EXCLUDE
REQUIRED PARKING FROM YOUR FAIR
CALCULATION BUT THERE IS NO
REQUIRED PARKING THE ONE
DISTRICT ACTUALLY DOESN'T SAY
THAT THE U.S. ONE DISTRICT IT
REQUIRED ZERO IT REQUIRED NO
MINIMUM PARKING AND THAT WAS IT
PUT IN PLACE SLIGHTLY BEFORE
THE ENTIRE CODE WAS CHANGED.
THE DC ONE HAS A MAXIMUM AMOUNT
OF SURFACE AREA THAT YOU CAN
DEVOTE TO PARKING.
THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
TODAY I HAVE A NUMBER
OF QUESTIONS BUT I TEND TO TALK
A LOT SO MAYBE I CAN WAIT IF
OTHER PEOPLE HAVE QUESTIONS.
>> OTHER QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT, HERE I GO.
ALEXIS, EVEN IF THE AT GRADE
PARKING IS NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
YOU'RE ONLY GOING TO GET TO
THREE HUNDRED AND EIGHT
PERCENT.
RIGHT.
BUT THERE'S SUPPOSED TO GET A
THREE HUNDRED AM I CORRECT
ABOUT THAT.
THREE HUNDRED IS THIS ONE IS
LASHA NUMBER AND BUT THEY'VE
ALSO EARNED AN EXTRA EIGHT
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OVER THAT
NUMBER SO IF YOU ADD UP THE
THREE HUNDRED PERCENT FOR AREA
PLUS THE EIGHTY EIGHT THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET BONUS AND YOU
CALCULATE THAT THAT'S 311 SO
FUNCTIONALLY THEIR LIMIT IS
311.
THAT'S INCLUDING THE LOT THREE
TIMES THE LOGORRHEA PLUS THE
EIGHT THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
BONUS WHEN THEY REMOVED THE
PARKING THAT HAPPENS SOME
CALCULATE OUT TO THREE EIGHT
WHICH IS LESS THAN 311 CODAS
HAPPY GOOD ON THE THIRD PAGE
OF THE ZUBARI REPORT UNDER THE
FIRST STANDARD FOR APPROVAL THE
STATEMENT FAIR AT THE END
OF THE FIRST PARAGRAPH THE
GENERAL INTENT IS TO MAINTAIN
ACTIVATORS STREET WALL AND
LIMIT THE EXTENT OF SETBACKS.
SO THEN THIS CAUSED ME TO HUNT
ALL OVER FOR THIS SETBACKS AND
I THINK I FOUND THEM ON PAGE
SEVEN OF THE STARFURY WORK AND
AM I CORRECT IN THAT ALONG
SOUTH STATE'S STREET THE
SETBACK WILL VARY FROM FIVE
FEET TO SIX FEET AS YOU WALK UP
STATE STREET AND I ASSUME
THAT'S FIVE OR SIX FEET FROM
THE EDGE OF THE SIDEWALK IS MY
ASSUMPTION CORRECT IT IF YOU
SEPARATE IN THIS PROJECT SET
BACK IN THIS PROJECT I WOULDN'T
SAY IT'S COMPLICATED BUT IT'S
USING ALL OF THE TOOLS OFFERED
IN THE ORDINANCE.
YEAH, I SEE WHAT THEY ARE
DISTRICT IS TEN FEET IS THE
REASON I ASK THAT THAT
OBVIOUSLY THEY PROBABLY HAVE
OPTIONS AND ALL THE THE TEN
SLOTS WERE THE BOTTOM BUT IN
ORDER TO GET THEIR RETURN ON
INVESTMENT THE BUILDING HAS TO
ACHIEVE A CERTAIN HEIGHT AND
NUMBER OF DWELLINGS OR IT
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE BUT THE
ENVELOPE IS PRESENTING A LARGE
STRAIGHT UP FRONT ALONG STATE
STREET WHERE THE NARROWEST
SETBACK EXISTS.
HOW DO YOU RECONCILE THAT WITH
STAFF'S INTENT TO HAVE A
NINETEEN FOOT SETBACK?
THERE'S SOMETHING INCONSISTENT
HERE I DON'T GET IT.
I THINK I CAN HELP EXPLAIN THE
SETBACK IN THE SUNNI DISTRICT
IN THE IN THE TABLE IS TEN
FEET.
WE ALSO ALLOW THERE IS AN
OPTION TO REDUCE REDUCE
SETBACKS ON ONE SIDE OF A SITE
IF ANOTHER SIDE OF THE SITE HAS
AN INCREASED SET BACK SO THAT
SO THERE'S BALANCE THAT'S JUST
THAT'S LAYMAN'S TERMS BUT THERE
IS THAT PROVISION I CAN LOOK IT
UP FOR YOU.
I BELIEVE IT'S A FIVE EIGHTEEN
MAYBE POINT SIX MAYBE THAT'S
THE PREMIUM SECTION WHERE YOU
CAN REDUCE THAT WHERE YOU CAN
REDUCE THAT FOR SET BACK DOWN
TO FIVE ON ONE SIDE IF YOU
INCREASE IT ON A DIFFERENT SIDE
AND HAVE TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF THAT ALLOWANCE IN CODE A
PERFECTLY ACCEPTABLE GOOD.
I KNOW THIS BECAUSE THIS
PROJECT AND SO THEY REQUIRED
THE BACK IS IS FIVE FEET FOR
THAT STATE THREE FIVE NOW THE
PLANNING STAFF WE HAVE
RECOMMENDED THAT THEY GO ABOVE
AND BEYOND AND THAT WE LOOK TO
THE DOWNTOWN DESIGN
MANUAL FOR
ITS GUIDANCE FOR HOW TO
MITIGATE, IF YOU WILL, FOR THE
DISCREPANCY BETWEEN THE
CHARACTER OF THE AREA BEING
RESIDENTIAL ARE FORESI WITH
FIVE FOOT WIDE SIDEWALKS AND
FAIRLY NARROW TRILLANES IN THE
BIG PICTURE TO MITIGATE FOR
THAT CHANGE TO THE MOST DENSE
ZONING DISTRICT THAT WE HAVE
OUTSIDE OF THAT DOWNTOWN USE
THE DOWNTOWN STREET DESIGN
MANUAL FOR DESTINATION STREETS
WHICH SAY PROVIDE 19 FEET FROM
THE BACK OF THE CURB TO THE
BUILDING FACE AND IN THAT 19
FEET YOU CAN HAVE AN EIGHT FOOT
AMENITY ZONE FOR YOUR BUS STOPS
FOR YOUR STREET LIGHTS, PARKING
METERS, WHATEVER.
YOU CAN ALSO HAVE AN EIGHT FOOT
SIDEWALK FOR THAT LOAD
OF PEOPLE AND YOU CAN HAVE THE
LEXY'S THAT ALLOWS DOOR SWINGS,
THAT ALLOWS OTHER FURNITURE TO
BE PLACED AND WHEN YOU OVERLAP
THE TWO WHEN YOU OVERLAP THE TO
THE EXISTING AMOUNT OF TREE ON
THE EXISTING FIVE FOOT SIDEWALK
AND THE PROJECTS 15 FOOT SET
BACK, WE SAID IF YOU NEED TO
PLEASE MOVE THAT BUILDING BACK
EVEN MORE SO THAT WE GET 19
FEET BETWEEN THE BACK OF THE
CURB AND THE BUILDING, THEY
HAVE THAT ON THE FIRST THEY
HAVE THAT FOR THE FIRST FLOOR
OF THIS BUILDING AND THAT'S
SOMETHING PLANNING ASKED AND WE
ARE ASKING THEM TO COMPARE
APPLES AND ORANGES BECAUSE THE
UDC STANDARD CALLS FOR A SET
BACK MEASURE FROM THE PROPERTY
LINE WHICH IS BASICALLY THE
BACK OF THE SIDEWALK WE ARE
ASKING THEM TO GO ABOVE AND
BEYOND TO ALMOST MITIGATE FOR
THEIR REZONING REQUEST TO
PROVIDE AN ENTIRE SORT
OF FOLKMAN'S STREETSCAPE AND
THE STREETSCAPE AS MEASURED
FROM THE BACK OF A CURB TO THE
BUILDING FACE A VERY THOROUGH
EXPLANATION.
I THINK THE BUILDING IS VERY
INTERESTING THAT IT COULD HAVE
JUST BEEN A PLAIN YOU KNOW,
TOWER TOWER BOX WITH A LOT
OF PLANNING HAS GONE INTO THIS
GOING INTO MY NEXT QUESTION ON
THE FOURTH PAGE OF THE STAFF
REPORT, THE FIRST SENTENCE IS
THAT FAILURE TO GRANT A
VARIANCE WITH THE RESULT IN THE
REMOVAL OF THE ROOF GARDEN.
SO MY QUESTION IS SORT OF WHY
PICK ON THE ROOF GARDEN?
I MEAN WHY WHY DOES THAT
AUTOMATICALLY FALL OUT?
WHY WOULDN'T BE SOMETHING ELSE
?
>> THAT ONE I CANNOT ANSWER
THAT HAS TO BE TO THE APPLICANT
BECAUSE IN THE IT'S ALL FLOOR
AREA AND TO MEET CODE IT
DOESN'T MATTER WHAT IS THE
DESIGNATION OF THE FLOOR AREA.
I MEAN MY INITIAL REACTION I
READ THAT WAS IF YOU DON'T GIVE
US WHAT WE WANT WE'RE TAKING
OUT A VERY JUICY PIECE OF THE
PROJECT SO GIVE US WHAT YOU
WANT.
SO I'D LIKE THE APPLICANT TO
ADDRESS THAT WHEN HE WHEN HE OR
SHE IS UP.
SO GOING TO THE THIRD CRITERIA
IT'S IN TERMS OF SUBSTANTIAL
JUSTICE.
I DON'T THINK THEY'VE REALLY
ANSWERED THE CRITERIA.
I'M LOOKING FOR SOME
JUSTIFICATION.
IT SAYS THAT IS GOING TO
PROVIDE A VOLUME OF BUYER
RETENTION WITH A LITTLE BIT
OF A LINE AREA.
IS THAT IN MY I GUESS MY
QUESTION IS THAT ALL WE HAVE SO
I'LL BE LOOKING FOR THAT
RESPONSE FROM THE APPLICANT AS
WELL.
AND MY LAST QUESTION IS THE
FIRST SENTENCE ADDRESSING
CRITERION ABOUT BEING SELF
IMPOSED AND I AND MY WIFE AND I
LOOKED AT THIS AND BOTH OF US
WERE PUZZLED.
WE DO NOT UNDERSTAND THE FIRST
SENTENCE.
IT'S IF IT'S FROM THE DEVELOPER
IT'S ARCHITECTURAL GLOBALLY
SPEAK.
BUT MAYBE YOU COULD ENLIGHTEN
ME ABOUT THAT ALEXIS ONE BEGINS
WITH THE VARIOUS PROVIDES A
STREET WALL INTERFACE AND THE
INTENT OF SET BACK AND BUILDING
PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS, ET
CETERA.
I DO NOT UNDERSTAND THAT
SENTENCE.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN IT?
WELL, I CAN GIVE YOU MY
INTERPRETATION OF IT BUT IN THE
END I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT YOU
THAT WE FOLLOW UP WITH THE
APPLICANT I BELIEVE WITH THE
POINT IS IN CLOSING THE PARKING
AREA AND KEEPING IT ENCLOSED AS
PART OF ENCLOSED BUILDING MEANS
THAT MORE CONTINUOUS STREET
WALL AS VIEWED FROM STIMPSON
AND HENRY THAT IT WILL BE
ENCLOSED AND IT WOULDN'T BE
SURFACE PARKING TAPPED INTO THE
THE VIEWS OF THE BUILDING.
IT WOULD BE IT WOULD READ FROM
THE STREET TO BE PART OF THE
BUILDING.
OK, I'M NOT SURE I FOLLOW THAT
BUT I'LL BE LOOKING FOR FURTHER
EXPLANATION FROM THE APPLICANT
AND I THINK THAT IS
THAT'S THE
END OF MY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR ALEXIS
OR JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE,
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES WITH I
AM HERE ESPS PLEASE CLEAR AT
THIS TIME I TOOK SOME NOTES SO
HOPEFULLY I CAN SAVE YOU TIME
AND ADJUST SOME OF THEM THROUGH
THE PRESENTATION.
SO LET ME TRY TO GO OK WE SO
YOU'VE SEEN THIS ALREADY OUR
FORESE I ALSO TRIED TO OUTLINE
IT BECAUSE THERE IS SOME NUANCE
TO ALL THE LAYERS OF THIS
PROJECT SO THERE ARE HANDOUTS
THAT TRY TO BREAK THIS DOWN FOR
SOME OF THOSE DETAILS.
SO WE DO HAVE EIGHT
NONCONFORMING PARCELS IN OUR 4C
OUT OF THE TEN AND SO SOMETHING
NEEDS TO BE DONE WITH THE SITE
EVEN DO ADDITIONS AND
RENOVATION MANY OF THESE
PARCELS HERE MAKE SURE HERE AND
MANY OF THESE PARCELS ARE
REALLY OLD BUILDINGS TO THE
POINT THAT THE OWNERS HAVE JUST
RECENTLY TAKEN OWNERSHIP
OF THEM.
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN WELL
MAINTAINED AND SO THE TAX
BURDEN, THE INSURANCE AND THE
MAINTENANCE OF THEM DON'T MAKE
THEM FEASIBLE TO CONTINUE ON.
AND SO THAT'S PART OF THE
REDEVELOPMENT.
SO TO REDEVELOP PARCELS EITHER
NEED TO BE COMBINED AND OR RE
ZONED TO ENABLE DEVELOPMENT
OF THESE PARCELS.
AH I CAN GO QUICKLY THROUGH
ZONING OUR UNDERSTANDING OF THE
ZONING RELATIVE TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ENVIRONMENT
IN THE STATE'S LOWER SOUTH
STATE STREET AREA PLAN THAT
MUST BE MIXED USE AND IN THE
TWO THOUSAND NINE LAND USE PLAN
THAT IT'D BE MIXED USE ALONG
STIMPSON.
SO WE LOOKED AT MIXED USE
CATEGORY THE ONLY MIXED USE
CATEGORY THAT IN THE PURPOSE
STATEMENT REQUIRED RECOMMENDS
RESIDENTIAL ALL THE OTHER
PURPOSE STATEMENTS SURROUNDING
RESIDENTIAL AND DISCUSS
BUSINESS AS ONE SPECIFICALLY
SAYS INCLUDING RESIDENTIAL.
SO THAT'S WHERE PEPSI ONE DAY R
I CAN GO INTO DENSITY TYPES
OF THE RESIDENTIAL ZONING IF
YOU LIKE.
SO I'M KIND OF TRYING TO MOVE
THROUGH HERE.
SO YES AS YOU'RE SEEING IN THE
PARCEL ONE OF THE QUESTIONS WE
TRIED TO SURROUND THE PARKING
WITH ACTIVATED STREET FINE
WHICH IS PROGRESS WE HAVE FOR
OUR SET BACKS REQUIREMENTS.
OUR UNDERSTANDING OF THE
PARKING ESPECIALLY IN TERMS
OF SUPPRESSING IT AT 50 PERCENT
IS TO ENABLE AT LEAST THAT
FIRST FLOOR THE FLOOR ABOVE IT
NEAR THE SIDEWALK TO ACTIVATE
THE STREET.
AND SO BY ENCLOSING THAT
PARKING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
LINE AND SURROUNDING WITH
COMMERCIAL SPACES, WE'RE TRYING
TO MEET THE SAME INTENT
OF ACTIVATING THE STREET FRONT
WITHOUT OUR CAPACITY TO
SUBMERGE AT THAT FIFTY PERCENT
TO NOT BE COUNTED AS PART
OF OUR EFFORT, OUR AS YOU CAN
SEE THERE'S A STORMWATER OVER
RETENTION POND DETENTION AND IN
THE MIDDLE OF THAT PARK THAT'S
A GRAY SHADED AREA AND THAT'S
WE NEED TO MANAGE ALL OF THAT
STORMWATER ONSITE.
WE NEED TO DO INFILTRATION AND
DETENTION AND THIS IS WHERE IT
IS.
WE CAN'T PUT IT ON THE OUTSIDE.
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH FOOTPRINT
AREA TO PUT IT IN PLAZAS THAT
WE HAVE MARKED.
WE CAN'T PUT IT WITHIN THE
COMMERCIAL SPACE BECAUSE IT HAS
TO BE ACCESSIBLE.
SO THE PARKING AREA IS THE ONLY
ACCEPTABLE PLACE TO BE ABLE TO
INSTALL THIS TO MEET OUR
STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS.
SORRY FOR THERE'S AN ELEVATION
CHANGE ACROSS THE BUILDING AND
THE PARKING IS AT THE HIGHER
LEVEL TO BE ABLE TO TALK THAT
STORMWATER DETENTION UNDERNEATH
ALL KIND OF GO INTO SECTIONS A
LITTLE BIT AS WELL.
YOU'VE SEEN THIS?
OH YES.
SLIDE CHANGE ZOOM IN OR NOT.
OK, I'M GOING TO TRY TO DO IT
WITH TINY TINY DIAGRAMS.
THE INTENTION OF THIS REALLY AT
THE END OF THE DAY IS WE HAVE A
REALLY HIGH WATER TABLE AND SO
TO BE ABLE TO TALK THAT
STORMWATER DETENTION REQUIRED
AS PART OF THE CONDITIONS
OF REDEVELOPMENT UNDERGROUND
WITHOUT LOWERING IT TO THE
POINT OF DEWATERING THE SITE,
WE CAN'T ACTUALLY SUBMERGE
PARKING TO NOT QUALIFY AS NON
IF THEY ARE 50 PERCENT
UNDERGROUND.
SO THE DESIGN OF THE PROJECT
WAS THAT WE BUILT A MOUND AS A
PARK AND THAT WE ALMOST CARVED
A CAVE INTO THAT LANDSCAPE
BOUND TO OUR PARKING INTO I
KNOW TECHNICALLY WE CAN WE HAVE
A ROOF IN AN ENCLOSED PARKING
BUT THAT'S THE DESIGN INTENT
AND THIS WORKS THROUGH A FEW
OF THESE OPTIONS THAT I LAID
OUT ON THE HANDOUT FOR YOU IN
ONE LAYER OR I WISH I REALLY
WISH I COULD ZOOM IN ON THIS
SKY.
LET ME SEE IF I CAN
NO.
OH OK.
WELL TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES AND
NOW I HAVE ANOTHER POP UP THERE
WE
MAYBE THIS WILL BE EASIER IF
I CAN PAN.
OK, SO THE FIRST OPTION SAID
LET'S PUT THE NO PARKING
COMMUNITY RESPONSE WHEN WE HAD
A COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT MEETING
AND SAID WE HAVE A LOT
OF CONCERNS WITH THE REDUCED
PARKING THAT YOU ALREADY HAVE,
PLEASE MAKE SURE TO HAVE SOME
PARKING.
AND SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO IS APPROPRIATE ABOUT PARKING
THAT BOTH ENABLES FINANCING AND
FEASIBLE AND WE BELIEVE THIS IS
FOR ANY PROJECT GOING FORWARD.
I DENSITY THAT SOME PARKING IS
GOING TO BE REQUIRED 30 SECONDS
FOR ME TO CREATE A PARKING
AT'S A GREAT OPTION THREE IS
THIS ACROSS IT 50 PERCENT THIS
AGAIN SUPPRESSES OUR STORMWATER
DETENTION INTO DISCRETIONARY.
THE SAME HAPPENS WITH FOUR FIVE
IS KIND OF WHERE WE'VE LANDED
IS MAKING SURE THAT WE HAVE
THAT WHOLE AREA WHY WE'RE
REMOVING THE ROOF IS BECAUSE
THAT IS THE EASIEST TO KIND
OF REENGINEER.
IT'S SOME INFILTRATION WE HAVE
TO MANAGE THE OTHER OPTIONS
REALLY REMOVE A LOT MORE SQUARE
FOOTAGE AND OTHER OPTIONS WE
CAN'T MAKE SHALLOWER DETENTION
TOGETHER.
WE'RE PLANNING GEOTHERMAL AND
SO THERE'S AN RENEWABLE
RESOURCE INTENSITY WITHIN THIS
PROJECT THAT A FOOTPRINT
OF THAT STORMWATER IF IT'S THAT
ANY LARGER LIKE WIDER AND
SHALLOWER WOULDN'T ALLOW THE
AMOUNT OF WELLS REQUIRED TO
SATISFY ALL OF THE ENERGY TO DO
OUR MECHANICAL SYSTEMS.
SO THERE'S A SUSTAINABLE
COMPONENT.
WE HAVE A CONDITION TO THE
REZONING IS ALL ELECTRIFICATION
SO ALL THIS TO TRYING TO
MITIGATE ANY OFFSITE POWER
COMING TO THE SITE AND SO
GEOTHERMAL WATER TABLE PARKING
WE CAN'T SUPPRESS IT AND THAT'S
REALLY THE TECHNICAL AND
FEASIBILITY THAT WE'RE TRYING
TO EXPLAIN AS THE REASON TO
GRANT THIS VARIANCE.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS.
YES, MA'AM.
AND I'M SORRY I DIDN'T CATCH
YOUR NAME YOU SAID SO CAN I
JUST CALL YOU?
ABSOLUTELY.
I DIDN'T CATCH YOUR LAST NAME.
I'M SORRY SO WHY I THINK YOU
EXPLAINED IT IF YOU DON'T GET
THE VARIANCE THE EASIEST PART
TO REENGINEER IS THE ROOF
GARDEN SO THAT PART IS GONE.
CORRECT.
SO MY SENSE OF THIS I THINK
THIS IS A VERY COOL LOOKING
BUILDING AND IT'S AN
IMAGINATIVE APPROACH TO SET AS
OPPOSED TO JUST BUILDING A BOX
THERE AND THIS IS ALMOST SORT
OF A BORDER AREA, THE PROPERTY
JUST NORTH OF THE RAILROAD
TRACKS AND SOME OF THE
PROPERTIES ARE LOOK PRETTY
MARGINAL EVEN FROM SQLITE
STREET.
THE SENSE I HAVE IS BECAUSE
OF THE COMPLEXITY OF THE ZONING
ORDINANCE AND OTHER ORDINANCES
THAT YOU HAD TO THREAD NARROWLY
TO TRY TO MAKE AN IMAGINATIVE
BUILDING WORK.
YOU KNOW THE ALTERNATIVE I
GUESS YOU COULD THROW UP YOUR
HANDS AND SAY WHAT THE?
WE'RE JUST GOING TO HAVE AN
EIGHT STOREY LITTLE PLAIN
LITTLE BOX AND IT'LL NEED
EVERYTHING AND THAT'S IT.
AND YOU COULD DO THAT I GUESS
IT WOULD BE ON A MAGIDA NO
PARKING A LITTLE BOX AND YOU
KNOW, THAT'S IT.
BUT SO THE CONCERN I HAVE IN ME
WHAT I'M TRYING TO THINK OF IS
GIVEN THE ELEGANCE THAT YOU
WOULD TRY TO ADDRESS THIS, THE
AMOUNT OF WORK YOU PUT INTO
THIS, TO WHAT EXTENT CAN I BEND
SOME OF THE CRITERION A LITTLE
BIT TO SAY, YOU KNOW, IT'S
NEVER GOING TO FIT 100 PERCENT.
YOU JUST GIVE A LITTLE OK AND
LET IT GO BY AND I GUESS THE
ONE I'M ZEROING IN ON RIGHT NOW
IS THE TWO OF THEM ABOUT ONE
NOT BEING SELF IMPOSED BECAUSE
YOU COULD DESIGN SOMETHING
SMALLER AND SECONDLY ABOUT
SUBSTANTIAL JUST IS SORT OF THE
BIG YOU MENTIONED SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT WE'RE IN THE BUYER
RETENTION IN TERMS OF PROVIDING
SOME PURKEY BECAUSE THE
COMMUNITY MEETING BUT I GUESS
I'M LOOKING FOR YOU TO ADDRESS
THOSE TWO THINGS.
YEAH.
SO I CAN RESTATE THEM OR IS IT
OK LET ME TRY TO GO THROUGH
THEM AND THEY HAVEN'T CLARIFIED
THAT LONG.
OK, SO YEAH THE FIRST ONE IT'S
IT'S REALLY WELL WE'RE
THREADING THE NEEDLE AND TRYING
TO PRESENT THE DESIGN.
IT'S ACTUALLY THREADING THE
NEEDLE RELATIVE TO A LOT OF THE
PROGRAM THAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN
AND RECOGNIZING CONCERNS ABOUT
LIMITS AND THINGS THIS PROJECT
IS ALSO PLANNED TO BE MASS
TIMBER WHICH THE QUALITIES
OF CONSTRUCTION ACTUALLY REDUCE
ITS CARBON FOOTPRINT DOWN TO 20
PERCENT OF THE TYPICAL
CARBON FOOTPRINT OF STEEL OR
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT.
SO BASED ON THE TWENTY TWENTY
ONE BUILDING CODE WE CAN ONLY
GO TO EIGHTY FIVE FEET WHICH IS
GREAT.
IT RESTRICTS OUR HIGH WHICH
MEANS WE HAVE TO BUT OUR
FOOTPRINT OUT WHEN WE SPREAD
OUR FOOTPRINT OUT WE DON'T HAVE
INFILTRATION PARKING AREA
BECAUSE OF IT.
WE NEED TO EVEN THAT OUT TO BE
RESPECTIVE NEIGHBORS TO AVALON
AND CASTING SHADOWS OF THINGS
WE REALLY STEPPED UP TO STATE
STREET OVERALL WE HAVE MAXIMUM
AS WELL BECAUSE SEE WHAT THEY
ARE DOES NOT HAVE A MAXIMUM.
SO IT'S REALLY ABOUT THAT LOT
COVERAGE AND SEE WHAT THEY ARE.
THAT LOT COVERAGE COULD COME
THROUGH A LOT OF DIFFERENT WAYS
BUT WE'VE TAKEN ADVANTAGE
OF ALL OF IT AND ANY OTHER KIND
OF PROJECT COMING FORWARD COULD
BE SIMILAR AND INVERT TO THAT
ZONING LIKE WHAT WHAT PROJECT
COULD WE SEE SURFACE PARKING
THAT DOESN'T HAVE TOWARDS FLIR
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT IF WE
DID THIS OUT IF WE GO TO OUR
FOR IF WE JUST SAID RESIDENTIAL
ALTHOUGH THAT'S NOT PART OF OUR
COMPREHENSIVE GUIDANCE
DOCUMENTS TO SAY HOW TO DO
MIXED USE WE COULD DO UP TO TWO
HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN UNITS.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DOING A
HUNDRED TWENTY FOUR UNITS TO
MAKE THAT FEASIBLE WE'D HAVE TO
DO SIX BEDROOMS STUDENT HOUSING
I WISH BE SEVEN HUNDRED FORTY
FOUR BEDS WHICH IS AT FIVE
HUNDRED PERCENT THAT ARE RIGHT
ALONG WITH THAT WE COULD
BENEFIT IN A PARKING DECK NEXT
TO THIS WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO
AVOID THOSE STUDENT HOUSING AND
MAXIMIZING PROFIT TO MAKE THEM
WORK OR PROJECT WORK OR REALLY
TRYING TO GET A LOT OF THESE
COMMUNITY GOALS.
SO THAT'S THE REASON WHY I LIKE
WE BOTH NEED THE PARKING AND WE
HAVE A VERY FINE AMOUNT
OF PROGRAMING TO THREAD THAT
NEEDLE TO MAKE SOMETHING WORK
HERE THAT ACHIEVES OUR HOUSING
CRISIS GOALS IF THAT HELPS TO
THE SECOND POINT MAYBE ABOUT
THE SURROUNDING OR THE ROOF AND
INFILTRATION, THERE'S A
QUESTION ABOUT THE DETAILS
INFILTRATION ONE OF THE
COUNTRY'S SUBSTANTIAL JUST
YEAH.
YOU MENTIONED THE RETENTION
STORMWATER RETENTION BASIN AND
SOME OF THEM.
YEAH.
SO THE STORMWATER IS OVERALL
NICE.
YEAH.
SO IN ALL CASES WE NEED TO DO
STORMWATER DETENTION BEST
PRACTICES.
I'VE GOT THE ENGINEERING TO
HAVE AN ANSWER TO CORRECT ME IF
I GIVE IT A LITTLE BIT BUT BEST
PRACTICES IS DUE TO GRAVITY FED
INFILTRATION INTO OUR GROUND
WHICH MEANS WE'RE NOT TAKING
ANY OF OUR STORMWATER AND
PUTTING IT INTO THE CITY
STORMWATER SYSTEM.
WE'RE TAKING CARE OF ALL OF OUR
STORMWATER ON SITE.
AND SO IN TERMS OF COMMUNITY
JUSTICE WE'RE MAKING SURE THAT
THE CAPACITY OF THE CITY'S
INFRASTRUCTURE ISN'T BEING
OVERWHELMED IF WE LOWER THAT
STORMWATER DETENTION BASIN WE
WOULD HAVE TO CAP IT AND WE
WOULD BE PUMPING BECAUSE WE
WOULD BE IN THE AQUIFER.
BUT ONCE WE'RE IN THAT WATER
TABLE THERE WE WOULD BE PUMPING
IT OUT TO ENSURE IT'S EMPTY TO
TAKE ON THAT ONE HUNDRED YEAR
STORM EVENT AND SO WE WOULD
CONTINUOUSLY BE LOADING UP THE
STORM WATER SYSTEM OF THE CITY
WHICH IS A BIG COST THAT WOULD
PROBABLY BREAK THE PERFORMANCE
OF THIS PROJECT BUT ALSO IS
OVERWHELMING OUR CITY SERVICE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND IT'S NOT
JUST PRACTICES, RIGHT TO JUST
BE PUMPING THE WATER PEOPLE OUT
AND THEN BACK TO MAYBE THAT
GEOTHERMAL TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE NOT TOUCHING THAT
AQUIFER.
WATER IS THE BEST CONDUCTOR FOR
ENERGY BEFORE WE DRILL THOSE
WELLS OVER FIVE HUNDRED DEEP
AND SO WE WANT TO HAVE A REALLY
HEALTHY AQUIFER TO BE ABLE TO
HAVE A LONG LIFE SPAN OF THAT
GEOTHERMAL FIELD AND THAT
REALLY IS OUR SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS AND IT REDUCES THE AMOUNT
OF ELECTRICITY THAT WE NEED TO
PULL INTO THE SITE BECAUSE WE
CAN USE RENEWABLES AND AS WE
DID DTT ALL THESE STUDIES TO
FIGURE OUT HOW MUCH ELECTRICITY
WE MIGHT BRING, WE REALIZE THAT
IF THIS PROJECT WERE FULLY
ELECTRIFIED FROM WITHOUT ONSITE
RENEWABLES WE WOULD MAX OUT
SUBSTATION PROVIDES TO THE SITE
.
AND SO THEN THE NEXT PROJECT
WHICH WE HOPE TO BE OUR
NEIGHBORS HOUSING COMMISSION
RIGHT ALONG STATE STREET THE TO
OUR EAST THEY WOULD THEN HAVE
TO DO THE INFRASTRUCTURE
UPDATES TO BRING NEW CIRCUITS
TO THEIR SITE TO DO
ELECTRIFICATION AND AS A CITY
PROJECT THAT'S PART OF THE CITY
GOALS AND ESTABLISHMENT.
SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE
LEAVE INFRASTRUCTURE WITH
CAPACITY AND READY FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THANK YOU MA'AM.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
THE QUESTIONS FOR THE AFRICAN
.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, NOW'S THE TIME
WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING.
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
.
HELLO.
EXCUSE ME.
SORRY.
HELLO.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS FOR
JOHN HARP'S IN EVERY TOWN IN
THE FOURTH QUARTER I LESS THAN
A MILE FROM THE PROPOSED SITE
BY THE WAY IN AND I'M SPEAKING
TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO GRANT
BAFFLEGAB VARIANCE TO ALLOW
THEM TO BUILD THIS ROOF OVER
THE PROPOSED PARKING AREA FOR
USE AS A PUBLIC PLAZA ABOUT THE
SIZE OF A LIBRARY LANE PARKING
LOT AND I THINK WOULD BE A
TRAGEDY TO DENY A VARIANCE AS
IT WOULD SIMPLY MAKE THE
PROJECT WORSE BY HAVING THE
PUBLIC OF A USABLE SPACE HERE
THEN I LIKE WALLING IT OFF
ANYTHING LIKE THAT PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO GO TO GRAB
SOME FOOD TO EAT LUNCH ETC. WHY
WE WOULD PREFER A SERVICE TO A
PROGRAM THAT IS
PAID FOR BY A
DEVELOPER DOESN'T REALLY MAKE
ANY SENSE TO ME.
SO THAT'S SOMEONE WHO WAS
THERE.
BRIAN WOULD DEFINITELY USE THE
SPACE ASKING YOU TO PLEASE
ALLOW THEM TO BUILD IT.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
THANK YOU JABIR CAN GARBERVILLE
THE TWENTY EIGHT HOMECOURT IT'S
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF VANDERBERG
NOWHERE NEAR THIS PROJECT.
I HAVE NO CONNECTION WITH THE
TEAM OR WITH THE PROJECT BUT
LIKE MR. DENHA IF I ASK YOU TO
APPROVE THIS VARIANCE TONIGHT I
AGREE WITH YOUR STATEMENT THAT
YOU'RE JUST GOING TO PUT IN
OPEN PARKING MUCH WORSE PROJECT
MORE EVEN MORE IS THAT TO THE
EXTENT THAT THIS PROJECT RELIES
ON THIS VARIANCE FOR VIABILITY
AND IT MIGHT I THINK IT WOULD
BE CRITICAL TO CRAFTING THIS
VARIANCE THE PETITIONER SORT
OF DOWNPLAYED THIS BUT THIS IS
AN EXTRAORDINARY PROJECT FROM A
POINT OF VIEW OF CLIMATE ACTION
.
SHE MENTIONED THE CONSTRUCTION
I BELIEVE THIS IS WILL BE THE
FIRST LARGE MASS TIMBER FRAME
BUILDING IN THE ENTIRE STATE.
THE GEOTHERMAL ELEMENT IS
ADMIRABLE.
THERE'S GOING TO BE SUBSTANTIAL
ROOFTOP SOLAR, SOME ROOF ONSITE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT WHICH WAS
MENTIONED PACKING FIFTY FOUR
SPACES OUT OF 216 UNITS MINIMAL
TO ME THIS PROJECT CHECKS
VIRTUALLY ALL THE BOXES WHEN IT
COMES TO A CLIMATE FRIENDLY
PROJECT AND WHAT A CLIMATE
EMERGENCY AND I THINK THIS HAS
TO BE A CONSIDERATION I THINK
WOULD FALL UNDER THE NATURAL
JUSTICE ELEMENTS OF THE UDC
HERE.
SO I STRONGLY SUPPORT THE
PRESIDENT'S REQUEST.
I DON'T SEE A TIMER SO I DON'T
KNOW HOW MUCH TIME I HAVE LEFT
BUT A LITTLE OVER A MINUTE
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
AND YOUR MAJESTY, I OPPOSE THE
TEMPORARY OPEN SPACE ALLIANCE
FOR THE VILLAGE PROJECT BECAUSE
THEY'RE HEATING THEIR TWO
HUNDRED TWENTY APARTMENTS WITH
GAS AND THAT GOES DIRECTLY
AGAINST THE CITY'S CLIMATE
GOALS AND I'M IN FAVOR OF THIS
VARIANCE FOR THE EXACT SAME I
WAS OPPOSED TO THAT ONE FIFTH
COLUMN.
THIS PROJECT NEEDS THE THESE
GOALS IN EVERY WAY AND EXCEEDS
UNNATURALLY IF YOU GET THIS
GOING TONIGHT AND THE FINANCING
ENDS UP FALLING THROUGH THE
PARK, IT DOESN'T GET BUILT.
I HOPE THERE'S A WAYS THAT THIS
VILLAGE DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY
SINCE REMAINING TO THE NEXT
DEVELOPER I'M SORRY HOW MUCH
TIME THANK YOU.
I THINK I FIVE 1914 AFTER THE
UDC YOU HAVE THE ABILITY TO
DECLARE AND APPROVE NULL AND
VOID SO MAYBE IN A YEAR OR SO
YOU CAN WE CAN REVISIT THIS
PROJECT AND IF IT'S NOT GOING
FORWARD, IF IT'S DEAD THEN I
WOULD HOPE IT CAN BE TAKEN AWAY
TO SAVE SOME GAS BURNING
ATROCITY DOESN'T GET DIDN'T GET
TO USE IT TO INCREASE THE
RAFAAT.
THAT'S MY ONLY RESERVATION.
OTHERWISE I UNRESERVEDLY URGE
YOU TO APPROVE THIS VARIANCE
AND I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
VOLUNTEER SERVICE.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
IF THERE IS ANYONE ACCESSING
THE MEETING REMOTELY PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE CALLER ENDING FIVE
THREE FOUR YOU'LL BE ALLOWED TO
TALK IN THE MEETING
.
THIS IS YOUR SECOND OR TWO OR
THREE FIVE THREE ONE ONE WORD
ONE SIDE OF TOWN.
I'M JUST CALLING TO GIVE MY
SUPPORT AS WELL TO THIS
PROJECT.
I DON'T LIVE NEARBY BUT I HAVE
BEEN IN THE AREA QUITE A FEW
TIMES AND I'VE USED DEVELOPERS
NEARBY SPACE RECENTLY THEY THE
DEVELOPER AT VENUE WAS KIND
ENOUGH TO GRANT US OR A RECENT
BICYCLE SUMMIT FOR WASHTENAW
COUNTY FOR USE OF THE SPACE AND
THEY HAVE BEEN VERY GOOD ABOUT
SUPPORTING A COMMUNITY.
SO I THINK THEIR IDEALS AND
THEIR PLANS FOR THE SPACE ARE
HONEST AND I THINK THAT THIS IS
THIS REALLY GOOD PROJECT IS
SOMETHING THAT THEY TRULY WANT
TO SEE BUILT REALIZE THAT SOME
OF THE AREA HERE IS NOT
STRICTLY UP TO THE ZONING
OF THE SEA.
ONE AREA THAT THEIR REQUEST I
THINK GIVING THEM A VARIANCE
FOR THE PARKING SO THAT IT
REMAINS A COVERED SPACE AND SO
THAT IT REMAINS THAT SPACE THE
PUBLIC COULD USE RATHER THAN
LIKE A PRIVATE PARKING LOT
WOULD BE A NET BENEFIT TO THE
COMMUNITY AND I THINK THAT
SEEING THIS PROJECT MOVE
FORWARD WOULD BE A BIG BENEFIT
TO THE COMMUNITY BOTH IN TERMS
OF , YOU KNOW, REVITALIZING
THAT AREA, MAKING IT A NICE
PLACE TO LIVE AND PROVIDING
MUCH NEEDED HOUSING IN THE
AREA.
I THINK THAT THIS IS ALL A NET
BENEFIT LET ALONE WHAT THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER SAID ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, HAVING ALL THE
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS MASS
TIMBER, HAVING SOLAR PANELS
INSTALLED, HAVING HYDRO THERMAL
HEATING AND COOLING.
SO I JUST THINK IT'S A REALLY
GOOD PROJECT AND TO HAVE IT BE
DENIED JUST BECAUSE OUR NEW
RULES THAT WE PASSED LAST YEAR
SAYING THAT PARKING IS NOT
REQUIRED ANYMORE MEANS THAT
THIS SITE ALL OF A SUDDEN HAS
AN ADDITIONAL SO MANY THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET BECAUSE WE'RE NOW
CONSIDERING PARKING PART OF NPR
WHICH WE DID NOT PREVIOUSLY
CONSIDER WHEN WE DIDN'T WHEN WE
REQUIRED PARKING BY FOUR HAVE
THAT CAUSED THIS PROJECT TO DIE
WOULD BE REALLY SAD.
SO IT'S A GREAT PROJECT.
I VERY MUCH SUPPORT IT AND I
HOPE YOU DO MY GRANTED THERE
IS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU OF COLOR TURNING FIVE
THREE FOUR.
YOU'LL NOW BE PROMOTED TO THE
MEETING BEGINNING OF OUR LOWER
DOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
THIS PROJECT HAS A LOT
OF INTERESTING FEATURES
ESPECIALLY THE STAYING ABILITY
AREA.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF PRETTY KEY
GOALS RIGHT NOW IN OUR CITY
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY.
I'M NOT GOING TO SPEAK FOR OR
AGAINST THE PROJECT AS A GOOD
PROJECT.
I'M GOING TO SPEAK IN TERMS
OF THAT.
THIS SHOULD NOT BE BEFORE YOU
RIGHT NOW AND I'M GOING TO TELL
YOU WHY I RELATED TO SIX YEARS
AGO OUR COMPANY ZIBA WANT TO DO
COMMISSIONERS' TO PUT YOU ON
THE SPOT RIGHT NOW AS A
DEVELOPER.
IS THERE A REASON THEY WEREN'T
BRINGING IT FORWARD AS A TUDI
AND THEN THEY WOULDN'T EVEN
HAVE TO COME BEFORE THE DEBATE
FOR A VARIANCE?
AND THAT WAS A VERY ACCURATE
STATEMENT THAT WAS MADE.
THIS SHOULD BE COMING AS A BIG
POTENTIALLY HAVE THIS EXACT
SAME PLAN APPROVED OF THE PUDI.
WELL, WHY NOT AS A PD COMPARED
TO C1 THEY ARE WELL LET'S LOOK
AT WHAT'S COME IN FIFTY YEARS
IT'S BEEN IT HAD BEEN FIFTY
YEARS SEVEN YEARS AGO WHEN THE
FIRST APPLICATION ONE YEAR CAME
IN AND THAT ONE HAD THE
FINANCES AND CONDITIONS THAT
COST NINE MILLION IN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THE WAY IT WAS APPROVED
COMPARED TO THE EXACT SAME PLAN
APPROVED AS A PD SHORTLY AFTER
THAT A PROJECT CALLED THE
CARNET CAME IN AND THAT ONE
CONDITIONS AND SEE ONE A AND
THE CONDITIONS WERE REVIEWED BY
AN ATTORNEY AND PRESENTED TO
CITY AND MAKE A LONG STORY
SHORT THAT PROJECT WAS
REJECTED.
IT WAS NOT A VIABLE PROJECT AS
APPLIED FOR IT HAD THE
CONDITIONS OF BUILDING THAT IT
HAD IN THERE SPECIFICALLY THE
KIND THAT THE COURT FROWNED
UPON AND THAT'S NOT SOME
CONDITIONAL GUNNING'S SOME THAT
WAS THE KIND THAT WASN'T SO
THAT CAME BACK TO THE BEAUTY
AND THEY GOT THE EXACT SAME
PROJECT APPROVED SAME SITE PLAN
BUT THEY PAID NINE THOUSAND
DOLLARS PER UNIT FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND A TOTAL
OF ABOUT EIGHTY EIGHT THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
THEY'RE ON A TENUTA BUILDING
THE NEXT PROJECT THAT CAME UP
THAT WAS CONTEMPLATING SEE WHAT
WAS BROUGHT TO THE PARK WHEN
THEY WENT TO UDY AND THEY ARE
CONTRIBUTING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNITS ON SITE.
ORIGINALLY THEIR APPROVAL WAS
FOR TWO MILLION DOLLARS.
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN LIEU
BUT THEY ARE GOING TO SWITCH IT
AND PUT HOUSING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS ON SITE.
SO HERE WE ARE NOW WE WANT TO
ADD BY AWAY AND SEE ONE A AND B
ONE AND TWO ARE FOUR CATEGORIES
THAT GO TOGETHER AS DOWNTOWN
ZONING AND DOWNTOWN TRANSITION
ZONING AND THEN COME TOGETHER
FOR VERY SPECIFIC REASONS AND
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE
THREE REMAINING AND DON'T APPLY
OUTSIDE OF THE AREA.
SO THIS REALLY SHOULDN'T BE A
FELONY.
OUR APPLICATION START WITH IT
SHOULD BE A B AND THERE'S VERY
SPECIFIC THINGS THAT WE WILL
LOSE IF IT'S APPLIED, IF IT'S
APPROVED AS IS RATHER THAN AS A
PD AND I DON'T THINK IT'S AN
APPROPRIATE APPLICATION AND
SHOULD NOT EVEN BE BEFORE YOU
RIGHT NOW.
NOW IS SAYING NOTHING NEGATIVE
ABOUT THE PROJECT BUT THE WAY
THAT THE APPLICATION HAS BEEN
MADE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
SO YOU DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
OTHER CALLERS.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
THAT SAID, THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
>> YES, PLEASE DO.
AND JUST BECAUSE YOU BROUGHT IT
UP AND I THINK MAYBE FOR ALEXIS
BUT IF THE APPLICANTS WANT TO
ADDRESS TO WHY WASN'T THERE
PUDI
WAS THERE SOMETHING THAT
PRECLUDED IT FROM GOING THROUGH
THAT PROCESS OR SOME BENEFIT TO
THE PATH YOU CHOSE?
>> I CAN ADDRESS THAT SO FAR
THIS THE FIRST UNIT FOR A
SECOND I THINK.
YEAH, YEAH.
I THINK A PERSON IS I I CAN'T
SPEAK FOR THE APPLICANT ABOUT
WHY BUT I CAN SPEAK TO THE
PROCESS.
PUDI IS AVAILABLE TO ANYONE WHO
WANTS TO APPLY BUT WE AS THE
CITY STAFF AS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CITY COUNCIL WE
CAN'T REQUIRE SOMEONE TO ZONE
COMMUNITY BUT IT WAS I WOULD
NOW IT'S MY OPINION THE WAS
ORIGINALLY CRAFTED AND TABLED
TO ALLOW A MIX OF USES OR A
STYLE OF DEVELOPMENT THAT IT
WAS SIMPLY IMPOSSIBLE UNDER OUR
CURRENT CONVENTIONAL ZONING
DESIGNATIONS AND IT IS A
DISTRICT WHERE YOU CAN
CUSTOMIZE YOUR USER, CUSTOMIZE
YOUR AREA PLACEMENT STANDARDS
OF STREET PARKING STANDARDS,
LANDSCAPING AND SO FORTH.
BUT IN EXCHANGE FOR THAT WE
HAVE SOME PRETTY HIGH STANDARDS
FOR IT AND WE DO REQUIRE YOU TO
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHEN
YOU ARE EXCEEDING EITHER THE
UNDERLYING ZONING DENSITY OR
THE MASTER PLAN RECOMMENDED
DENSITY BUT WE AS PLANNERS
ADVISING APPLICANTS I KNOW WE
CAN SAY YOU'RE YOU'RE NOT
YOU'RE SITTING YOU'RE NOT
GETTING YOU'RE NOT GETTING SO
MAYBE YOU SHOULD CONSIDER OPV
BUT WE ALWAYS RECOMMEND
UNCONVENTIONAL ZONING DISTRICT
WHEN YOU FIT AND THIS PROJECT
IS VERY CLOSE TO MEETING THE
CWA SLASH OUR STANDARDS.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE A PEEVEY
IT IN TERMS OF LAND USES IT'S
NOT UNIQUE.
I MEAN I'M NOT TRYING TO
INSTALL THE PROJECT.
I'M JUST SAYING IT'S GROUND FOR
RETAIL AND UPPER FLOOR
RESIDENTIAL.
THAT'S NOT A CRAZY MIX OF USES
IN TERMS ALSO DIMENSIONS OF THE
PROJECT ITSELF.
IT'S NOT PARTICULARLY UNIQUE
AND THOSE ARE ACTUALLY GOOD
THINGS IN ZONING.
THERE IS NO REASON THAT WE HAVE
TO PUT A CUSTOM ZONING DISTRICT
IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THIS
PROJECT
OR ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
AFTER.
OK, SO I APPRECIATE ALL THE
PRESENTATION.
CLEARLY THIS PROJECT IS TRYING
TO BALANCE A NUMBER
OF DIFFERENT THINGS THE WIDER
SIDEWALK AMENITY WE HEARD ABOUT
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ACTIVITY
INTERFACE WITH THE STREET, THE
SORT OF STEP DOWN TRANSITION
FROM THE MASSING OF THE
BUILDING TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THEY'RE ALSO TRYING TO FIT
IN A MINIMAL AMOUNT OF PARKING
WITHOUT MESSING WITH ANY OF THE
OTHER THINGS.
IT KIND OF SEEMS LIKE A GAME
OF JENGA.
SO WHEN I LOOK BACK AT THE
CRITERIA THAT WERE TO JUDGE THE
SUN, IS THERE A PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY THAT'S EXCEPTIONAL
WITH THE PROPERTY?
YES, IT'S THE WATER TABLE BEING
TOO HIGH FOR THEM TO BURY THE
PARKING IN WHICH CASE IT
WOULDN'T COUNT.
YOU KNOW, I START THINKING
ABOUT THE SUBSTANTIAL
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING DONE
AND I LOOK AT THE OTHER OPTIONS
THAT COULD BE OUTCOMES THIS IF
WE DON'T RENT THE VARIANCE AND
THEY ALL SEEM LIKE THEY'RE
WORSE FOR THE COMMUNITY AND FOR
THIS PROJECT SO THAT COULD YOU
KNOW, PARKING YOU KNOW, THEY
PRESENTED IT TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S ALREADY
BEEN CONCERNS ABOUT SPILLOVER
PARKING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
YOU KNOW, TO ME THEY'RE
PROVIDING A VERY MINIMAL AMOUNT
TO ONE QUARTER PER UNIT AND
THEN OTHER OPTIONS WITHIN A DAY
OR TWO.
I JUST DON'T SEE HOW A SURFACE
PARKING WITHOUT THIS TRANSITION
A PUBLIC AMENITY OF GREEN
SPACES IS BETTER.
I DO HAVE A QUESTION PERHAPS
FOR STAFF ABOUT HOW VARIANTS
LIKE THIS GETS TRANSFERRED
BECAUSE I KNOW THAT THE
VARIANCE GOES WITH THE LAND.
BUT HOW STRICT IS THE
INTERPRETATION OF THE VARIANCE?
SO LIKE IF WE GRANTED THIS WITH
WHAT SPECIFICITY WOULD IT BE
CARRIED OVER TO ANOTHER SITE?
COULD IT BE IGNORE ALL PARKING
AND OK GO AHEAD.
WELL I DON'T IT DOESN'T CARRY
OVER TO ANOTHER SITE.
OK, BUT YOU WOULD HAVE
ESTABLISHED THE PRECEDENT THAT
SOMEONE COULD REQUEST AND
DEMONSTRATE THAT THAT A HIGH
WATER TABLE OR ANOTHER FEATURE
IS JUSTIFICATION FOR A VARIANCE
IN TERMS OF HOW IT WOULD APPLY
TO A FUTURE IF THIS PROJECT
DOESN'T COME TO FRUITION IT I
BELIEVE IT WOULD ALONG WITH THE
LAND UNLESS IT WAS SOMEHOW
CONDITIONED FOR THIS PARTICULAR
DESIGN AND I BELIEVE THAT
SOMEONE HAD MENTIONED I HAVE TO
VERIFY THAT WITH JOHN BARITE IF
THAT CAN BE AN ACTION TO AVOID
A VARIANCE OR LACK OF A RETURN
.
SO THE VARIANCE OR THE MOTION
COULD BE CUSTOMIZED TO SAY THAT
THIS WAS ONLY CONSISTENT WITH
THIS PROJECT SOMETHING TO THAT
EFFECT.
AND THEN ALSO SOMEBODY DID
BRING UP LAPSING AS WELL WHICH
HAS NOT HAPPENED IN MY TENURE.
BUT THERE IS A SECTION OF CODE
THAT STATES THAT IF A VARIANCE
OR A PROJECT IS NOT DEVELOPED
WITHIN A CERTAIN TIME FRAME,
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS CAN
REQUEST A REHEARING OR REMOVE
THAT VARIANCE FROM THAT
PROPERTY.
YEAH, JUST TO THINK IN THE MOST
EXTREME YOU KNOW WAYS I
WOULDN'T WANT TO SEE THIS B
SOMEBODY ELSE COMES IN AND
BUILDS FIVE STORIES OF PARKING.
I MEAN PART OF THE CRITERIA FOR
THIS IS THAT THEY'RE SUGGESTING
THE MOST MINIMAL AMOUNT I FEEL
OF THE VARIANCE.
SO THAT'S WHERE I WAS KIND
OF WONDERING WHAT WOULD THE
BOUNDARIES ON THAT BE?
TODD?
I WASN'T SURE IF YOU WERE DONE
DERMO OK, SO WHERE I COME DOWN
ON THIS I THINK IT IS AN
ELEGANT BUILDING.
I KNOW THERE'S BEEN EXPERIENCES
IN THE PAST NOT ZONING BOARD
CITY COUNCIL WHERE DEVELOPERS
COULDN'T MEET THE REQUIREMENTS
FOR A FAIRLY ELEGANT BUILDING
AND RESORTED TO SORT OF A
HOMOGENOUS BLOCK.
I'M THINKING OF A STRETCH ONE S
FIFTH ON THE EAST SIDE JUST
BEFORE PACARD I THINK WITH A
DEVELOPER SAID FINE I'LL JUST
BUILD WHAT YOU CAN DO AND THAT
IS REALLY THE SINGLE PROBLEM I
HAVE I THINK IS THE FIFTH
CRITERIA ABOUT THE THE MINIMUM
USE OF THE PROPERTY AND I THINK
THE DEVELOPER COULD BUILD
SOMETHING THAT WAS BORING WITH
ATTACHED PARKING STRUCTURE THAT
MET THE RETURN ON INVESTMENT.
BUT I'M LEANING LEANING TO
REALLY OVERLOOKING THAT BECAUSE
I THINK THEY PUT A LOT
OF EFFORT INTO THE BUILDING AND
THAT IT'S VERY INTERESTING AND
HAS SOME OTHER NICE AMENITIES.
WELL, I THINK I'M GOING TO BE
VOTING FOR THIS EVEN THOUGH I
HAVE A LITTLE BIT OF CONCERN
ABOUT THAT FIFTH CRITERIA JUST
BECAUSE IT IS A NICE A NICE
BUILDING MAYBE THAT'S A LITTLE
MUSHY BUT THAT'S HOW I'M
THINKING RIGHT NOW.
I'D BE INTERESTED IN YOUR ANY
OF YOUR REACTIONS TO THIS.
DO YOU THINK I'M ALL WET ISMAR
MY FEET AND MUSHY SWAMP BUT
ANYWAY THAT'S YEAH.
I MEAN THE WAY THAT I'M
INTERPRETING THAT IS THE
VARIANCE THAT THEY'RE ASKING
FOR AND MAYBE MAYBE SOMEONE CAN
CORRECT ME BUT THE WAY I'M
LOOKING AT THIS IS THEY'RE
ASKING FOR THE MOST MINIMAL
AMOUNT OF PARKING TO NOT COUNT
AS THE FAIR OR TOWARD THE FAIR
.
SO THAT'S HOW I'M LOOKING.
CHRIS.
SO JUST A FEW THINGS I THINK
FAR IS A TERRIBLE STANDARD TO
HAVE THE ORDINANCE AND I AM
SURE IT'S MADE IT VERY
DIFFICULT FOR YOU ALL TO
PRODUCE A A GOOD PRODUCT WITH
IT.
I THINK THAT IT IS A STANDARD
THAT IS THE ENEMY OF ANY
COMMUNITY THAT PURPORTS TO WANT
ADEQUATE HOUSING SUPPLY BUILT
IN THEIR COMMUNITY.
AND I WOULD HATE THE IDEA THAT
ANN ARBOR AND ITS RESIDENTS AND
ITS STUDENTS AND EVERYONE ELSE
WILL CALL THIS HOME.
WE GET A LESSER PRODUCT BECAUSE
OF FAR RELATED TO PARKING AND I
THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, IF IF WE
ARE KVA MEMBERS THAT FEEL THAT
ANN ARBOR NEEDS MORE HOUSING
THEY WEREN'T OR OBLIGED TO VOTE
FOR IT, I BELIEVE THAT THERE'S
AN ADEQUATE PROBLEM IN THE
WATER TABLE.
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, IS THIS
THE MOST MINIMAL VERSION
OF ITSELF AND THE ANSWERS I IN
THEORY YOU COULD BUILD NO
PARKING BUT THEN YOU'RE
CREATING PROBLEMS FOR
RESIDENTS.
YOU'RE CREATING PROBLEMS FOR
NEIGHBORS.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, IF IF IT WAS
THREE PARKING SPOTS PER UNIT,
THEN I THINK WE WOULD HAVE THE
JUSTIFICATION TO SAY THAT IS
NOT RIGHT.
THAT'S NOT THE MINIMUM.
I THINK THEY KNOW THEN I THINK
WE KNOW THAT.
SO I FEEL GOOD ABOUT THAT AND
ABOUT THE SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE RIGHT.
IT'S IT'S ARE WE GRANTING
SOMETHING TO THIS PROPERTY
OWNER THAT WE THAT IS AN
OTHERWISE GIVEN TO OTHER
PROPERTY OWNERS AND NO WE'RE
NOT BECAUSE NO ONE'S PROPOSING
PROJECT.
I MEAN I KNOW THERE ARE OTHER
PROJECTS LIKE THIS BUT YOU KNOW
HOW MANY PROJECTS COME BEFORE
US AND THEY CAN'T MEET FAR
RIGHT.
IT'S NOT HAPPENING AND FRANKLY
IT SHOULDN'T BE AN IMPEDIMENT
TOWARDS PROVIDING HOUSING.
AND SO I THINK THAT THEY HAVE
MET THE STANDARDS AND I THINK
THAT IF WE VOTED NO WE WOULD BE
DOING IT
A DISSERVICE TO OUR
COMMUNITY BY BY DELIVERING A
LESSER PRODUCT TO IT.
AND I KNOW TODD OFTEN TIMES YOU
GET A LITTLE FRUSTRATED WHEN IT
FEELS LIKE SOMEONE COMES UP AND
THEY THREATEN A WORSE PRODUCT.
BUT I THINK THAT'S QUITE THE
OPPOSITE HERE.
I THINK THEY HAVE REALLY WORKED
THROUGH A DIFFICULT PROCESS AND
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD SLOW
DOWN ANY OTHER DISCUSSION.
>> ARE YOU READY FOR MOTION?
DOES ANYONE HAVE SUGGESTED FOR
A CONDITION THAT THEY WOULD
LIKE TO JUST MIGHT BE
WORTHWHILE TO DISCUSS WHAT WE
ACTUALLY BELIEVE THE CONDITION
SHOULD BE AT THE END OF THE
VERSION?
I DON'T KNOW IF ANYONE HAS ANY
THOUGHTS.
COULD IT BE AT THE SITE PLAN?
I MEAN WOULD THAT BE
APPROPRIATE OR IS THAT TO HER
TO SOUND?
YEAH,
SO IF IT'S ONLY
CONDITIONAL FOR ACCURATE
PARKING IS THE VARIANCE THAT
MEANS THAT ANY DECT PARKING
WOULD COUNT TOWARDS THE EFFORT
WOULD BE ABSOLUTELY COMFORTABLE
FOR THAT BECAUSE IT REALLY IS
THE PARKING THAT WE CAN'T SYNC
.
SO ANY FURTHER PARKING OF ANY
FUTURE PROJECT I MEAN WE'RE
HAPPY WITH IT WITH THIS PLAN TO
WE KNOW THAT THESE THINGS ARE
VERY WEDDED TOGETHER IN THIS
MATRIX OF THINGS.
BUT AT GRADE PARKING IS REALLY
THE VARIANCE THAT WE'RE
SEEKING.
SO WE HAVE AN EXAMPLE RIGHT
HERE IN SUGGEST LANGUAGE TO
INCLUDE A PARKING STRUCTURE AND
THEN IT PROVIDES A SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF THAT PARKING
STRUCTURE.
DO YOU YOU KNOW THIS IS UNFAIR
TO ASK DO YOU KNOW THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE AS AN ACCURATE AMOUNT?
YEAH.
THAT THAT IS THE GREAT AMOUNT
THAT BECAUSE THERE IS NO
PARKING SO THE CHANCES OF YOU
KNOW, TO BE HONEST, IF A
DIFFERENT PROJECT CAME FORWARD
YOU COULD TAKE THAT AND STACK
IT, YOU KNOW, AND HAVE TO
NARROW OR SHOW PARKING LOTS AND
SO YOU CAN DO IT BY SQUARE
FOOTAGE OR AT THE ADDITIONAL
CONDITION OF FARAT GREAT
PARKING AS PART OF THAT.
OK, SO THAT'S AND YEAH YEAH OK.
AND THEN I WOULD JUST KIND
OF ADVOCATE LIKE WE HAVE THAT
CONDITION OF A QUARTER SPOT PER
UNIT SO WE'RE ALREADY
RESTRICTING OUR PARKING.
SO IF THAT'S A CONDITION OF THE
REZONING YOU'RE NEVER GOING TO
GET MORE THAN FIFTY FOUR UNLESS
WE FIGURE OUT HOW TO DO A LOT
TO SQUEEZE OUT MORE UNITS IN
THE SAME AREA SOMEHOW.
SO THANK YOU.
I'M SORRY I JUST I WANT TO MAKE
SURE WE'RE COMFORTABLE IF
ANYONE HAS ANY AMENDMENTS THAT
THEY WANT TO I'M NOT GOING TO
GET BASED ON THE FOLLOWING
FINDINGS AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
VARIANCE IN SECTION FIVE POINT
THREE SEVEN POINT TWO
DEFINITIONS TO EXCLUDE THE
AGREED PARKING FROM THE FLOOR
AREA RATIO OR FOR CALCULATION.
THANK YOU GRACE
DERMO.
YES MIKE YES CHRISTINA YES.
JULIA YES TODD YES CHRIS YES
YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO STEP AWAY AND
ALLOW TODD TO TAKE OVER AND
THEN WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PETITION QUBA TWENTY THREE DASH
ZERO ZERO ONE FIVE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE TREVOR WOULD DRIVE
THAT
.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS ZIBA TWENTY THREE DASH
ZERO ZERO ONE FIVE THE
ADDRESSES TO ZERO TO FIVE
TREVOR WOULD DRIVE TOM
COVID WITH MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNERS IS REQUESTING
RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT ONE SUBSECTION
A NON CONFORMING USE TO ALLOW A
NEW NONCONFORMING USE MEDICAL
DENTAL OFFICE TO REPLACE A
PREVIOUS NONCONFORMING USE IN
THE EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED OUR
OFFICE RESEARCH LIMITED
INDUSTRIAL.
THE OFFICE BUILDING WAS BUILT
IN TWO THOUSAND AND IS TWENTY
EIGHT THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED
EIGHTY TWO SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF PLYMOUTH ROAD
BETWEEN THE LESLI PART NATURE
AREA AND THE TRAILER SHOPPING
CENTER.
THE BUILDING HISTORICALLY HAS
HAD SIMILAR TYPE OF TYPES
OF USES AS THE BUILDING HAS
SERVED THE AREA AS AN OFFICE
COMPLEX SINCE ITS CONSTRUCTION.
THE PROPERTY IS APPROXIMATELY
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY PARKING
SPACES AND ALL THE NECESSARY
INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT THE
PROPOSED USE.
YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITOR'S YOU'LL SEE THAT
THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE ZONING
MAP.
YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL
AT THE CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN
AND AND ITS CURRENT ZONING THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE EXISTING
OFFICE BUILDING.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY THAT
WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
THESE ARE SOME PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT.
YOU SEE THE NORTHEAST SIDE
OF THE EXISTING BUILDING MORE
PHOTOS OF THE SAME.
THIS IS THE NORTH WEST SIDE
OF THE EXISTING BUILDING AND
THIS IS THE EXISTING DRIVE
NORTH OF THE BUILDING AND THE
EXISTING NORTH WEST OF THE
BUILDING AND YOU SEE THE
MULTI-FAMILY COMPLEX IN THE
BACKGROUND.
THIS IS THE SOUTHWEST SIDE
OF THE EXISTING BUILDING AND
THE EXISTING APARTMENTS
SOUTHWEST OF THE EXISTING
BUILDING, EXISTING OFFICE AND
COMMERCIAL BUILDING SOUTH
OF THIS BUILDING AND THE
SOUTHWEST SIDE OF THE EXISTING
BUILDING AND THE EXISTING DRIVE
SOUTH OF THE BUILDING.
AND NOT TO BE TOO REDUNDANT BUT
THESE ARE MY PHOTOS THAT I TOOK
AND THE INSPECTION WHEN I WENT
OUT TO THE PROPERTY YOU SEE THE
ENTRANCE SIGN AND LOOKING AT
THE PROPERTY ITSELF AND DIDN'T
WANT TO BE COVERED THAT AND
COVERED IT PRETTY WELL OTHER
PICTURES AND SO I CAN TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE AT
THIS TIME IS ONE CLEAR THAT IF
A NON PERFORMING USE MOVES OUT
THEN ANOTHER NONCONFORMING IF
THEY WANT TO MOVE IN HAS TO
RECEIVE ZIBA APPROVAL?
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS IN
ENGLISH.
I DON'T MEAN TO STEP ON YOUR
TOES BUT I DO KNOW I NEED ALL
THE SUPPORT I CAN GET.
THIS IS NEW FOR ME.
NO QUESTIONS.
OK THE APPLICANT YOU FIVE
MINUTES OR THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING ZONING BOARD.
MY NAME IS TOM CORBETT .
I'M WITH MIDWESTERN CONSULTING
.
I'M HERE TONIGHT WITH MIKE
MARTIN FROM 1ST MARTIN.
JOHN, THANK YOU FOR YOUR REPORT
ABOUT THE PROJECT.
OUR REQUEST IS TO ALLOW OR
LEGITIMIZE MEDICAL DENTAL
OFFICES ON THIS PROPERTY.
THE SITE WAS DEVELOPED WITH THE
OFFICE BUILDING AND SUPPORTING
INFRASTRUCTURE IN ABOUT TWO
THOUSAND AND HAS CONTINUOUSLY
BEEN USED AS A MULTITENANT
OFFICE BUILDING SINCE THAT TIME
WE KNOW THAT PAST USERS AT THE
SITE INCLUDED ORGANIZATIONS
THAT COULD BE CONSIDERED
MEDICAL OR MEDICALLY ADJACENT U
OF M GENDER SERVICES SPAN
MILITARY SUPPORT GROUP PROGRAMS
,NETWORKS, MEALS ON WHEELS.
YOU HAVE MOBILITY RESEARCH ON
OUR GERIATRIC RESEARCH
MOBILITY.
YOU HAVE COMMUNITY HEALTH
SERVICES, INTERPRETER SERVICES,
TOBACCO CONSULTATION'S SERVICES
,ALCOHOL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM,
SUBSTANCE ABUSE RESEARCH CENTER
.
SO WE WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT
THIS REQUEST WOULD RESULT IN A
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES WITH THE
EXISTING NONCONFORMING USERS
OFFICE OR AS STATED THE MEDICAL
DENTAL OFFICE USES THERE IS
ADEQUATE INFRASTRUCTURE JOHN
HAD INDICATED IN HIS REPORT FOR
THESE USERS THE ADJACENT
PROPERTIES ARE OWNED BY FIRST
MARTIN.
WE'VE REVIEWED OUR REQUEST FOR
THIS NONCONFORMING USE AND WITH
OUR NEIGHBORS AND I'VE ASKED
JOHN I BROUGHT A LETTER
OF SUPPORT THAT I ASKED JOHN TO
PASS OUT TO EVERYBODY SO YOU
SHOULD HAVE A COPY OF THAT THEY
DO THIS REQUEST TO ALLOW AND
LEGITIMIZES THE MEDICAL OFFICE
USE IS IN RESPONSE TO MARKET
TRENDS POST COVERED WITH REAL
ESTATE MARKET FOR OFFICE
BUILDINGS BEING SLOW TO
REBOUND, MANY OFFICE OWNERS ARE
LOOKING AT OPPORTUNITIES TO
UTILIZE THEIR OFFICE ASSETS IN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND ONE WAY TO
DO SO FOR THIS PROPERTY IS TO
LOOK AT USING IT FOR MEDICAL
AND DENTAL OFFICE TYPES OF USE
.
THIS WOULD ALLOW FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO POSITION THE
PROPERTY FOR A LOWER VACANCY
AND ALLOW FOR THE REPURPOSING
OF AN ALREADY EXISTING
DEVELOPMENT OR INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT'S BEEN BUILT AND UTILIZED
IN THE PAST.
IT WOULD ALSO ALLOW FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR CONTINUED
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO THE
COMMUNITY AND TAX BASE.
SO IT'S FOR THESE REASONS
A
HISTORIC USE OF THE SITE.
DEFEATER FUTURE UTILIZATION
OF THE BUILDING, THE LACK
OF WHAT WE PERCEIVE AS ANY
DETRIMENTAL EFFECTS THE
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES THAT
WERE RESPECTFULLY REQUESTS THE
ALLOWANCE FOR MEDICAL DENTAL
OFFICE AT THIS PROPERTY.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS
YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
YES, JULIA I SO THE PROPERTIES
EMPTY NOW I'M HAPPY TO JOIN
IT'S APPROXIMATELY 50 PERCENT
OCCUPIED BY ANOTHER JUST BASIC
OFFICE USER SO OK STANDARD
GENERAL OFFICE SAID I'M SORRY.
GO AHEAD SIR.
COULD YOU IDENTIFY YOUR PARTNER
WITH FIRST MARTIN.
THANK YOU.
THE REQUEST IS BECAUSE YOU WANT
TO BROADEN WHO YOU ARE TO
MULTIPLE MEDICAL DENTAL USERS
AND BECAUSE THE ZONING DOESN'T
ALLOW FOR IT.
WE'RE HERE BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
TO TRY AND SEE IF THAT WOULD BE
AN OPPORTUNITY.
THE LIST THAT TIME WENT THROUGH
FOR ALL USES THE UNIVERSITY AT
ONE POINT IN TIME IT OCCUPIED
THE ENTIRE BUILDING AND THEY
HAD A SERIES OF DIFFERENT USERS
IN THERE AND ALTHOUGH A NUMBER
OF THEM HAD SEEN PATIENTS AND
SO JUST TRYING TO KIND OF SHOW
THAT IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IN
THIS EXACT BUILDING WE HAD
THESE SORTS OF USES AND IT
WASN'T AN ISSUE.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
NO, WE'RE ALL RIGHT.
I WILL NOTE THE ONE LETTER
OF SUPPORT WE RECEIVED FROM MR.
SIENKIEWICZ, PRESIDENT OF THE
MUSLIM COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
OF UNIVERSITY AND HE'S SPEAKING
ERODING SUPPORT OF THIS IS THE
ONLY QUESTION.
THIRTY CALLERS AT THIS TIME
FROM THE PUBLIC.
YES, OR ANYONE ELSE KNOW THERE
ARE NOT MANY CALLERS.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANYBODY PRESENT WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THE PROJECT WHO HAS
NOT SPOKEN ANY CALLERS CALLING
?
NO, THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, IN THAT CASE THE WE'RE
INTO I POSTED THE PUBLIC JUST A
PUBLIC MEETING PART IS OVER AND
WENT TO STAFF DISCUSSION
.
ALL RIGHT, GREAT.
WE NEED MOTION, OK.
OH, MIKE, YOU HAD A COMMENT I
WAS GOING TO MAKE THE MOST
OF IT.
UM, XEBRA TWENTY THREE DASH
ZERO ZERO ONE FIVE TO ZERO TO
FIVE CABER WOULD DRIVE
ALTERATION TO NONPERFORMING
STRUCTURE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY
TWO POINT TO ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO OUR
NEW NON PERFORMING USE MEDICAL
SUCH DENTAL OFFICE TO REPLACE
PREVIOUS NONCONFORMING USE IN
THE EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING.
A SECOND PART OK GRISS CHRIS
YES GRACE YES DERMO YES MIKE
YES KRISTINA YES JULIA YES AND
I VOTE YES AS WELL.
THE MOTION IS PASSED CAN THANK
YOU FOR THE TERMS
I WILL GRANT
CHAIRPERSON BRIAN
TODD TOOK
THEM.
HE HE STOLE MY AGENDA.
UH
, ALL RIGHT.
WELL THE LAST PETITION BEFORE
US THIS EVENING IS ZIBA TWENTY
THREE ZERO ZERO ONE SIX AND THE
ADDRESS IS NINE EIGHTY SHERWOOD
STREET RACE LAMBKIN OF LAMBKIN
GROUP LLC REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNERS ARE REQUESTING
A TEN FOOT VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT EIGHTEEN
POINT FIVE AVERAGING AND
ESTABLISHED BUILDING LINE.
THE AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK IS
THIRTY ONE FEET AND THE REQUEST
IS TO REDUCE THE FRONT SET BACK
TO TWENTY ONE FEET.
THE OWNERS ARE PROPOSING
CONSTRUCTING THREE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FOUR SQUARE FOOT WHICH
IS TWENTY SEVEN OR TWELVE FEET
IN ADDITION TO THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF THE RESIDENCE THE
PROPOSED ADDITION WILL CONTAIN
A MASTER BEDROOM, A BATHROOM
AND A KITCHEN ADDITION THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS OWNED BY
ONE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DWELLING DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
AT THE CORNER OF SHERWOOD
STREET AND SHERWOOD CIRCLE
NORTH OF PAULENE BOULEVARD IN
THE EBRIGHT NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE PROPERTY IS AT THE ENTRANCE
TO A CUL DE SAC CUL DE SAC
STREET.
A HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
FIFTY FIVE AND IS APPROXIMATELY
ONE THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED EIGHTY
THREE SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE PROPOSED ADDITION WILL BE
THE NW AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF THE HOME FACING SHERWOOD
CIRCLE.
THE OWNERS ARE NOTIFIED THAT
THE HOME WAS THE ORIGINAL SALES
MODEL STRUCTURE TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD DURING
CONSTRUCTION OF THE
SUBDIVISION.
THE HOME DOES NOT HAVE A
BASEMENT OR GARAGE.
IT DOES HAVE A A CARPORT IF
TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
ZONING MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED YELLOW AT THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN AND AT
THE INTERSECTION OF SHERWOOD
STREET SHERWOOD CIRCLE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
AND THE PROPOSED ADDITION IS
GOING TO GO TO IN THIS SECTION
OF THE HOME RIGHT HERE KIND THE
SQUARE OFF THE EXISTING NOTCH
IF IF YOU WOULD THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE SURVEY THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS A SITE
PLANNED FOR THIS VARIANCE
REQUEST AND YOU SEE THE
PROPOSED ADDITION AND THE
DARKER HATCHED AREA AND THE
ARROWS POINTING TO THIS SECTION
THAT'S NOT GOING TO MEET THE
TWENTY THE THIRTY ONE FOOT
AVERAGE ONCE I COMPLETE YET
TWENTY ONE FEET AND YOU CAN SEE
THE OF THE AMOUNT BEING
REQUESTED THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS
THE PROPOSED ADDITION AND AS I
STATED EARLIER IT'S A MASTER
BEDROOM ADDITION AND WILL HAVE
A MASTER BATHROOM ADDITION, A
WALK IN CLOSET EDITION AND THE
KITCHEN EDITION OF THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE ADDITIONS IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
HOUSE.
THE PROPOSED ADDITION IS THE
HATCHET AREA AND YOU SEE THE
REST OF THE HOUSE AND ITS
EXISTING FLOORPLAN.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS A FRONT
ELEVATION.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING CARPORT
AND THEN THE ADDITIONS WILL BE
ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE OF THIS
ELEVATION AND THEN THIS IS THE
SIDE ELEVATION THAT SHOWS THE
CARPORT AND YOU SEE THE
RELATIONSHIP I BELIEVE TO ASK
THE APPLICANT ABOUT THE THIS IS
ONE OF THE ADDITIONS IS GOING
TO BE TO SEE THE HATCHING AND
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE SIDE
ELEVATION AND THE REAR
ELEVATION AND IT'S POINTED
RIGHT HERE TO SHOWING THIS IS
WHERE THE PROPOSED ADDITION IS
GOING TO BE AND THEY HAVE THE
EXISTING SUNROOM IN AN EXISTING
OFFICE AND YOU SEE THE THREE
ELEVATION HOW IT ALL WORKS
TOGETHER AND THEN THE ROOF PLAN
UP HERE AS WELL.
NEXT SLIDE OR SOME RENDERING
THAT WE'RE SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION YOU CAN SEE THE
RELATIONSHIP OF THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS AND THE ROOF PLAN AND
AS IT RELATES TO THE PROPERTIES
IN THE CUL DE SAC ADJACENT TO
THE PUBLIC PROPERTY JUST
ANOTHER VIEW OF HOW THE SOVIET
PROPERTY TO THE RIGHT OF YOUR
SCREEN IS AND WORKS IN
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE OTHER
PROPERTIES ON THE CUL DE SAC
JUST ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE OF IT
COMING IN TO SHERWOOD STREET
AND SUFFOLK PROPERTY ON YOUR
LEFT ANOTHER AERIAL PERSPECTIVE
,A SIDE PERSPECTIVE OF YOUR
PROPERTY IN ADDITION RIGHT HERE
AND THEN THE NEIGHBORS RIGHT
THERE IN SHERWOOD STREET IN
SHERWOOD CIRCLE HERE.
THESE ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND YOU CAN SEE THIS IS THE
INDENTATION OF THE EXISTING
HOUSE WHERE THE SUNROOM IS AND
THE BACK OF THE EXISTING HOUSE
AND THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS IN
THIS AREA.
ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE FROM THE
SIDEWALK LOOKING DOWN AT THE
PROPERTY
.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE PROPERTY
FROM THE NEIGHBORS DRIVEWAY
DOWN AT THEIR PROPERTY.
MALKMUS PERSPECTIVES OF THE
PROPERTY.
THESE ARE MY PHOTOS THAT I TOOK
WHEN I WENT OUT AND TOOK PHOTOS
OF THE SITE.
YOU CAN SEE I HAVE A VERY NICE
VEGETATED BUFFER ALONG THE
STREET LOOKING FROM SHERWOOD
CIRCLE AT THE PROPERTY AND
LOOKING DOWN AT THE AREA THAT'S
PROPOSED FOR THE ADDITION
CONSTRUCTION AND YOU SEE THE
ERBEY STAKE IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE PROPERTY AND THE ADJOINING
PROPERTIES THEMSELVES.
THAT'S THE END OF MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE AT
THIS TIME
.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE PLEASE
COME FORWARD STATE YOUR NAME
FOR THE RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING, LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
MY NAME IS RACE LAMBKIN AND I'M
REPRESENTING MISS CLAUDIA LEO
AND THE PETITION HERE.
I THINK THEY HAVE A VERY STRONG
CASE FOR THE VARIANCE WITH THE
ISSUES LISTED ON THE
APPLICATION.
YOU GUYS HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
ME?
I'D BE GLAD TO ANSWER THEM BUT
I'D LIKE TO TURN IT OVER TO
MISS CLAUDIA TO SPEAK WITH YOU
GUYS TONIGHT.
ANY QUESTIONS BEFORE WE HEAR
FROM YOU?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
YES, MA'AM.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS CLAUDIA LEO.
I'M THE PROPERTY OWNER A 980
SHERWOOD.
I DIDN'T BRING MUCH OF A
PRESENTATION SO I GUESS I CAN
READ OFF THE INFORMATION WE
TURNON WITH THE APPLICATION
WHICH I ASSUME YOU HAVE ALSO
READ.
BUT IF I HAD TO SUMMARIZE
BASICALLY THE PROPERTY FACES
DIFFERENT CHALLENGES ONE BEING
THAT WHEN WE PLAN THE VERY
MODEST ADDITION WE FOUND OUT
THAT BECAUSE WE SIT ON A CORNER
WHAT WE THOUGHT WAS THE SIDE
SIDEBOARD ENDED UP BEING
ANOTHER FRONT AND THEN IN
ADDITION TO BEING ON A CORNER,
IT'S ALSO A CUL DE SAC AND SO
THE COOLEST SHAPES KIND OF IN
THE SHAPE OF A MUSHROOM SO TO
SPEAK.
AND SO MY NEIGHBOR'S HOMES THEN
APPEAR TO BE SITTING BECAUSE
OF THE SHAPE OF THE STREET SORT
OF WAY MORE BACK FROM THE
STREET THAN MY PROPERTY DOES.
WE APPEAR TO BE MORE PROMINENT
ON THE CORNER SO THAT THAT
POSTS CHALLENGES WHAT WE'RE
PROPOSING IS REALLY JUST
EXTENDING THE BOX IN THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
SO IT'S A VERY MODEST ADDITION
AND IT'S ABOUT I THINK THREE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET AND ONLY
THE CORNER OF THAT ADDITION IS
WHAT DOESN'T MEET THE THE
REQUIREMENTS IN ADDITION TO OUR
TROUBLES, THE HOUSE WHEN IT WAS
BUILT WAS SORT OF THE MODEL
HOME TO TO SHOW PEOPLE WHAT THE
THE OTHER MODEST RANCHES WERE
GOING TO BE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
.
AND SO MY HOME WAS BUILT
WITHOUT A GARAGE, WITHOUT A
BASEMENT AND IT WORKED WELL
WHEN I BOUGHT IT AS A SINGLE
WOMAN NINETEEN YEARS AGO AND
THEN I HAD A DAUGHTER AND I
BECAME A SINGLE MOM AND I DID
WHAT I COULD TO KEEP UP WITH A
PROPERTY AND TO MAKE US FIT.
NOW I'M NEARLY MARRIED.
WE'RE A GROWING FAMILY AND WE
SIMPLY JUST DO NOT FIT.
THERE'S NO STORAGE IN THE HOUSE
OTHER THAN A LITTLE ENTRANCE,
JUST A PLACE TO PUT COATS AND
THEN A VERY SMALL PANTRY AND
THEN A VERY SMALL LINEN CLOSET
OUTSIDE THE BATHROOM.
THAT'S ALL THE STORAGE WE HAVE
IN THE HOUSE.
SO WE'RE HOPING TO EXPAND A
LITTLE.
WE LOOKED INTO OTHER OPTIONS
WITH A PROPERTY RIGHTS THESE
DAYS.
IF I HADN'T BOUGHT MY HOUSE
WHEN I DID HARBOR I PROBABLY
COULDN'T EVEN LIVE HERE.
I'M ON A MODEST SALARY.
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN A STAFF
MEMBER.
YORAM YOU KNOW THE MORTGAGE
RATES WE SIMPLY COULDN'T MOVE
AND WE DON'T FIT AND WE'RE
LIVING AND THERE ARE A LOT
OF HARDSHIPS WHERE WE RENT A
STORAGE SPACE.
WE TAKE WEEKLY TRIPS TO THE
SPACE BACK AND FORTH.
IT'S COSTING US MONEY AND
CONVENIENCES.
WE HAVE OTHER BOXES THAT WE
LIVE AROUND IN THE HOUSE FOR
DAILY NECESSITIES AND WE MOVE
THE BOXES AROUND US.
IT'S REALLY JUST NOT A GOOD
SITUATION TO HAVE BOXES STORED
UNDER MY DAUGHTER'S BED.
MY HUSBAND MATTHEW HERE HE HAD
HIS OWN PLACE WHEN HE MOVED
INTO MY PLACE AND SO SUDDENLY
WE'RE TWO FAMILIES LIVING UNDER
THE SAME ROOF THAT I BOUGHT
NINETEEN YEARS AGO.
SO I DON'T KNOW I MEAN I ASSUME
THAT THE INFORMATION FROM THE
APPLICATION IS MADE YOUR WAY.
I DON'T KNOW IF I LEFT ANYTHING
OUT.
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO
ADD.
MATTHEW, EVEN IF I HAD THE I
WOULD SAY LIKE I MEAN IF I HAD
THE FINANCES TO MOVE OUT
OF THERE WE ACTUALLY LOVE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I LOVE MY HOUSE.
WE'RE TRYING TO IMPROVE IT.
IT'S A FIFTIES RANGE.
WE PLAN TO KEEP IN LINE WITH
THE LINES, THE DESIGN LINES TRY
TO ACTUALLY EVEN ACCENT THOSE
AND MAKE LOOK MORE LIKE MID
CENTURY MODERN.
WE'RE YOU KNOW, WE'RE TRYING TO
MAKE IT BETTER FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
MY DAUGHTER GOES WE WERE WIDE
WE'RE TWO BLOCKS AWAY FROM THE
SCHOOL SO WE REALLY WOULDN'T
EVEN WANT TO MOVE.
WE'RE JUST TRYING TO BRING THE
HOUSE MORE UP TO THE STANDARDS
OF MY NEIGHBORS IN THE SENSE
OF MY MY HOME DOESN'T HAVE
AMENITIES THAT THEY ARE ABLE TO
HAVE AND ENJOY.
AND ALSO WE'RE ONE OF THE FEW
PEOPLE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
HEARD TESTIMONY THERE TO STAY
MOST OF THE HOUSES AROUND HAVE
NOW TURNED OUT THAT IT'S A BAD
THING BUT THEY'VE TURNED INTO
RENTALS AND SO WE HAVE PEOPLE
THAT COME AND GO.
WE ALSO DON'T THINK THAT
THERE'S ANYTHING IN ANY WAY
THAT IT WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT
THE NEIGHBORS BECAUSE ONE
OF THE CHALLENGES MY PROPERTY
IS ACTUALLY THAT WE SIT ABOUT
FOUR FEET IN A HOLE SO TO SPEAK
AND SO WE'RE NOT BUILDING UP.
WE'RE JUST BUILDING OUT TOWARDS
THE BACK.
SO WE'RE NOT THERE'S NOTHING I
WOULD SAY TO THE NEIGHBORS
THERE'S IT DOESN'T OBSTRUCT
THEIR VIEW IN ANY WAY WE
ALREADY HAVE BETWEEN THE TWO
PROPERTIES WE HAVE VERY MATURE
TREES THAT COVER THE VIEW AS
IS.
SO THEY REALLY WOULDN'T IT
WOULDN'T IMPACT THEM VISUALLY
OR OTHERWISE IN ANY WAY TIME'S
OH YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING.
SO IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANKS.
ANY QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT I DON'T THINK SO.
ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION PLEASE COME FORWARD
NOW IF YOU'RE ACCESSING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE THE
RAISED HAND ITRA THERE ARE NO
CALLERS.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
I DO NOT BELIEVE WE RECEIVED
ANY COMMUNICATION ON THIS
PETITION.
SO WITH THAT SAID THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
I'LL TAKE A SHOT.
THANKS CHRIS SWANSEA'S TO ME.
OK WE'VE COME ACROSS THIS RULE
A FEW TIMES.
I STILL THINK IT'S AN ODD
STANDARD OF COURSE THIS HOME IS
BACK, YOU KNOW, APPROPRIATE YOU
KNOW IT PROPORTIONATELY TO
WHERE HER NEIGHBORS ARE.
THE LAYOUT PROHIBITS THAT
THERE'S A HARDSHIP THERE AND I
THINK IT'S JUST I THINK IT'S
TOO BAD THAT SHE HAD TO GO
THROUGH US TO PUT IN JUST
SHOWING HER HOME, YOU KNOW,
COURSE I DON'T THINK YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE ANY PROBLEMS HERE
.
I JUST I THINK IT'S A FLAW IN
OUR OUR RULES RIGHT NOW.
SO YEAH, ANY OTHER DISCUSSION,
JULIE?
I JUST FEEL LIKE I NEED TO SAY
BECAUSE I'M USUALLY THE ONE
WHO'S NOT SYMPATHETIC OF CORNER
LOTS BUT CLEARLY THIS IS NOT
RIGHT AND I'M IN SUPPORT OF THE
VARIOUS YOU READY FOR MOTION.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
BASED ON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS
AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE EIGHT POINT FIVE
AVERAGING AN ESTABLISHED FRONT
BUILDING ON THE AVERAGE SET
BACK IS THIRTY ONE FEET AND THE
REQUEST TO REDUCE THE FRONT
SIDETRACKED TWENTY ONE FEET.
THE OWNERS ARE PROPOSING TO
CONSTRUCT TO THREE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FOUR SQUARE FOOT OR
TWENTY SEVEN BY 12 FOOT
ADDITION TO THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF THE RESIDENCE.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS MOTION TO
SUPPORT THANK YOU TED.
YES BECAUSE YES YES I ALSO VOTE
YES DERMO YES MIKE YES
KRISTINA.
YES JULIA.
YES THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
WE HAVE NONE NEW BUSINESS JOHN.
I BELIEVE YOU HAD ANY NEW
BUSINESS.
I DO HAVE SOMETHING ON OUR
BUSINESS TONIGHT IS
UNFORTUNATELY JULIA'S LAST
EVENING WITH US AS A ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS MEMBER.
SO I WANT TO PRESENT A
CERTIFICATE TO YOU.
WE HAVE REALLY GOOD FOR FOUR
YEARS OF SERVICE.
ONE OF THAT AND THANK YOU FOR
YOUR SERVICE
.
ALL RIGHT.
I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO
VOTE YES.
OH YES.
I JUNE 12, MONDAY, JUNE 12TH
DOWNSTAIRS AND SO THERE WE ARE.
I THINK I HAVE TO DO WITH A
BUNCH OF EMAILS ALREADY WE
NOTICED IT'S BEEN NOTED SO IT'S
THAT IMPORTANT.
I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
EVERYONE THERE ON MONDAY JUNE
12TH AS WELL AND HOPEFULLY I'LL
BE BACK BE TRAVELING ON SUNDAY,
JUNE 11TH BACK FROM NORTH
CAROLINA.
YOU HAVE ALL DAY TO GET HERE
TONIGHT.
I HAVE ALL THE I LOOK FORWARD
TO IT AND I HOPE THAT YOU
ACTUALLY WILL GET SOMETHING OUT
OF IT, LEARN SOMETHING FROM IT
AND PLEASE PLEASE BETWEEN NOW
AND THEN IF YOU CAN THINK
OF ANYTHING THAT YOU REALLY
WANT TO DISCUSS QUESTIONS ABOUT
POSSIBLE EMOTIONS WITH
CONDITIONS ON THEM, THINGS LIKE
THAT, PLEASE EMAIL TO ME AND SO
I CAN GET IT TO THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND THEY CAN
PREPARE SOME MATERIAL AND
PRESENT THAT.
SO ANY QUESTIONS YOU'VE GOT
PLEASE SEND THEM TO ME BECAUSE
THAT WILL HELP ME FINISH THE
AGENDA AND WE CAN MOVE FORWARD
WITH THAT TRAINING.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE AND THE
COMMUNICATIONS I BELIEVE WE'VE
NOTED OUR COMMUNICATION WE
RECEIVED PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR ANY
MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
FOR THREE MINUTES.
ANYONE HERE WISHES TO SPEAK.
NOW'S THE TIME IF ANYONE
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FUNCTION THERE ARE
NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
WITH THAT DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN SO MOVED.
THANK YOU SUPPORT FROM DHARMA
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR I SAY I
POST WE ARE ADJOURNED THANKS
EVERYONE.
THANKS